In honor of this yearâs LGBTQI+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. Background The efforts to create a LGBTQI+ Pride march began in the United States on June 28, 1970, during the one-year anniversary of the Stonewall Uprisings External Link. It evolved into what is now a month-long celebration of the successes and numerous contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans to our society. President Bill Clinton became the first U.S. president to declare June as âGay and Lesbianâ Pride Month by issuing Proclamation 7203 External Link on June 11, 1999. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia, and concerts, and LGBTQI+ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that LGBTQI+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. The USDA 2024 Departmental LGBTQI+ Pride Month theme, âCultivating Resilience; Harvesting Hopeâ recognizes the contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans to our community, and more specifically, to agriculture. More Information about Pride Month External Link Presidential Proclamation and Executive Actions 2024 Presidential Proclamation â Coming soon! - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link - Events FPAC FY 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Awareness Month Events Description: In celebration of LGBTQI+ Pride Month, the FPAC Civil Rights and Equal Employment Opportunity Division (CREEOD) will be hosting a variety of events: Event 1: Queer Through the Years - Pride Month Observance Jeopardy Trivia Experience - June 12th at 1:00pm â 2:30pm EDT - Event 2: Queer History: Scientist Edition - Tuesday, June 11th at 1:00pm - 2:00pm EDT - Event 3: Queer Thriving: A workshop centered on queer farmer priorities and success - Tuesday, June 25th at 1:00pm - 2:30pm EDT - Learn more at: FPAC FY 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Awareness Month events Cultivating Resilience, Harvesting Hope Date: Wednesday, June 5, 2024 Time: 1:00 PM EST Description: In celebration of Pride Month, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, the Office of the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer External Link, and Equality USDA External Link will host an event. This is an opportunity to recognize the invaluable role that LGBTQI+ Americans have played in shaping our workforce and communities. The event will commence on the Whitten Patio at 1:00 pm EST. The event will also be available virtually on Zoom. Register to join by Zoom: Cultivating Resilience, Harvesting Hope event External Link AgLearn Resources Featured Courses Course â Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Course â Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Course â Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Course â Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Course â Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Course â Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Course â Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Course â Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Course â Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Course â Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link - Learning Channel: DEI in the Workplace External Link - Learning Channel: Leading DEI In The Workplace External Link - eBooks & Study Guides eBook: A Brief History of Equality External Link - eBook: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - eBook: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - eBook: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link -