In honor of this year’s LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. The information below is a portion of content quoted from Secretary Tom Vilsack’s address to all USDA employees on May 31, 2022. “At USDA we strive to build a workplace that welcomes and embraces all employees and encourages them to be their whole, authentic selves. We do this with a deep commitment to honoring our diverse experiences, perspectives, and contributions as we advance the goals of our nation. USDA is committed to LGBTQI+ equality and fostering a workplace environment in which everyone is included, respected, and empowered to fulfill their potential.” Background Information about Pride Month External Link: “Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as ‘Gay Pride Day,’ but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the ‘day’ soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally.” Presidential Proclamation and Executive Actions June 2022 Presidential Proclamation [TBD] - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link - AgLearn Resources From LinkedIn Learning (Courses) Out and Proud: Approaching LGBT Issues in the Workplace External Link - Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link - From Skillsoft-Percipio Percipio Book: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - Percipio Book: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - Percipio Book: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Percipio Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Percipio Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link - Additional Information and Resources Employee Resource from USDA: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Program External Link - Article from USDA: Pride Month and USDA’s Commitment to Inclusion External Link - Information from the Library of Congress about the History of LGBTQ+ Pride Month External Link - Information and Federal Resources for Pride Month External Link - USDA Pride Month Events Raising the Pride Flag at the Whitten Building On June 1st, from 8:20 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. EST, put on your Pride gear or most colorful outfit, and plan to join Secretary Vilsack and Deputy Secretary Bronaugh to kick off LGBTQI+ Pride Month by raising the Pride Flag at the Whitten Building. Secretary Vilsack and Deputy Secretary Bronaugh will open activities with remarks highlighting actions USDA is taking to promote inclusion for LGBTQI+ employees to further our efforts toward Making USDA a Best Place to Work and improving fair access to our programs and services.USDA Pride Observance On June 8th at 1 p.m., we will celebrate Pride month with our USDA Pride Observance hosted by OASCR, FPAC, NIFA, and Equality USDA. The program will feature a keynote and guest speakers, remarks from myself, and topics such as Hunger in the Trans Gender Community, featuring The Okra Project, The Williams Institute, and the Giver Network an ERG from the Forest Service. For information on USDA Pride Observance, watch OneUSDA intranet External Link and your Agency internal communications for participation details.Freeheld Film Screening On June 16, 2022, there will be a LGBTQI+ film screening of "Freeheld." Freeheld is a 2015 American drama film directed by Peter Sollett and written by Ron Nyswaner. It is based on the 2007 documentary short film of the same name about police officer Laurel Hester's fight against the Ocean County, New Jersey Board of Chosen Freeholders to allow her pension benefits to be transferred to her domestic partner after being diagnosed with terminal cancer (Register for the Freeheld Film Screening via Swank Virtual Portal External Link).LGBTQI+ Farmer’s Roundtable Discussion On June 21, 2022, at 1 p.m. EST, USDA in conjunction with Equality USDA, will host a LGBTQI+ Farmer’s roundtable discussion External Link. This virtual event will feature four LGBTQI+ farmers in conversation, speaking about their operation and experience, followed by a facilitated conversation amongst the panelists, with time for audience questions. Urban agriculture and its importance to LGBTQI+ communities will be explored. See the attached flyer with information on how to join.