View the 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Month site announcement. Last Updated: June 6, 2023 In honor of this year’s LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. The information below is a portion of content quoted from President Biden's Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month, 2023 External Link "During Pride Month, we honor a movement that has grown stronger, more vibrant, and more inclusive with every passing year. Pride is a celebration of generations of LGBTQI+ people, who have fought bravely to live openly and authentically. And it is a reminder that we still have generational work to do to ensure that everyone enjoys the full promise of equity, dignity, protection, and freedom." Background Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as “Gay Pride Day,” but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the ‘day’ soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. More Information about Pride Month External Link Presidential Executive Action - President Biden's Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month, 2023 External Link - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link Events LGBTQI+ Urban Farmer Roundtable No registration required. When: June 8, 2023, 2:00pm-4:00pm Join the LGBTQI+ Urban Farmer Roundtable (zoom event) External Link USDA LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance This year, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (OASCR) and the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) are coming together to host the Departmental LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance. This program will feature Dr. Katherine Dentzman (she/her) and Dr. Jaclyn "Jac" Wypler (they/she) as the keynote speakers. Dr. Dentzman and Dr. Wypler will be discussing the most recent data and research around LGBTQI+ farmers, and how queer farmers are literally changing the land they live and work on. Hear how USDA is changing the landscape of the lives of our LGBTQI+ employees and customers through diversity and inclusion initiatives. When: June 29, 2023, 1:00pm - 2:30pm EST Register for the USDA LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance Webinar External Link LGBTQI+ PRIDE Month Observance - Equality USDA Presents Pronouns in the Workplace Equality USDA is presenting a training session on pronouns in the workplace covering: why pronouns are part of an inclusive workplace culture, terms and definitions, best practices, USDA email signature block policy, and frequently asked questions. When: June 22, 2023, 2:00pm-3:00pm EST Register for the Pronouns in the Workplace Webinar (zoom event) AgLearn Resources From LinkedIn Learning - Course – Out and Proud: Approaching LGBT Issues in the Workplace External Link - Course – Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Course – Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Course – Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Course – Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Course – Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Course – Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Course – Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Course – Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Course – Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Course – Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link From Skillsoft-Percipio - Percipio Book: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - Percipio Book: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - Percipio Book: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Percipio Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Percipio Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link