The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Program promotes the employment, advancement and retention of persons with differing sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in the USDA workforce. The LGBTQ+ Program serves as a resource to assist managers in identifying and resolving employment, retention, and work environment issues affecting LGBTQ+ employees at USDA. LGBTQ Pride Month Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as “Gay Pride Day,” but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the “day” soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ+ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. In 1994, a coalition of education-based organizations in the United States designated October as LGBT History Month. In 1995, a resolution passed by the General Assembly of the National Education Association included LGBT History Month within a list of commemorative months. National Coming Out Day (October 11), as well as the first “March on Washington” in 1979, are commemorated in the community during LGBT History Month. 2021 Presidential Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month The uprising at the Stonewall Inn in June 1969, sparked a liberation movement — a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all. Pride is a time to recall the trials the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) community has endured and to rejoice in the triumphs of trailblazing individuals who have bravely fought — and continue to fight — for full equality. Pride is both a jubilant communal celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and dignity. This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle against discrimination and injustice. Resources Addressing Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Discrimination in Federal Civilian Employment - EEOC's Fact Sheet: Recent EEOC Litigation Regarding Title VII & LGBT-Related Discrimination - What You Should Know About EEOC and the Enforcement Protections for LGBT Workers - Examples of Court Decisions Supporting Coverage of LGBT-Related Discrimination Under Title VII -