The Census Bureau aims to be a safe and inclusive employer for LGBTQ+ individuals and their families. For example, all census employees are evaluated, at least in part, on how they contribute diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA). Census supports respectful use of pronouns and supports name changes in our systems. Our bureau is dedicated to fostering an inclusive working environment. We know our greatest strengths come from the diverse backgrounds, knowledge, and people who make up our team. For more information about internships, fellowships, and other employment opportunities visit: Beginning in July 2021, the bureau included questions regarding sexual orientation and gender identity (SOGI) on its Household Pulse Survey. For additional information on SOGI data visit, Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity in the Household Pulse Survey. For more information on how the bureau is Advancing Data Equity visit: For access to upcoming webinars, courses and other data resources visit: Rainbow Alliance aims to foster a climate of inclusion and diversity by educating Census employees and managers about Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) issues. Rainbow Alliance provides a Safe Space for LGBTQ+ individuals and Allies by organizing events and meetings. These efforts support the welfare and morale of our membership and community. For Pride Month, Rainbow Alliance hosts the Census Bureau's annual presence at Capital Pride and organizes events for employees. For more information, email us at census.rainbow.alliance.leadership.list@census.gov. The Census Bureau’s Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, Diversity and Inclusion (EEODI) is dedicated to fully implementing the policies, statutes, and laws that are designed to value and protect each employee and applicant and create an environment where all employees may work without fear of discrimination, harassment or reprisal. EEODI provides information about fostering an equitable and inclusive work culture. For EEODI resources, email EEO.DI@census. gov or visit: Use the EAP to find services for general help and support, schedule brief counseling sessions, and attend wellness seminars. For EAP resources, visit: Census offers a broad array of benefits including health insurance, life insurance, flexible spending account, long-term care insurance, retirement, and thrift savings plan. For more information, visit: More information is available at the Department of Commerce’s LGBTQ+ website below.