Patient and Family Education We want you to have all the information you and your child need to access gender-diverse healthcare services and support in your community. This page provides links to resources we hope will be helpful. Resources at Seattle Children’s - What to expect at your Gender Clinic visit - How to prepare for your visit - Transportation and places to stay - Hospital services - Paying for care - Social Work Resources to Support Gender Diverse Youth - Gender and Sexuality: An Introduction (PDF) (Spanish) - Gender Clinic Booklist and Resources (PDF) - Caring for Transgender Youth: A Q&A With Dr. Juanita Hodax - Community resources to support gender diverse youth - AMAZE: Age-appropriate educational videos for school-age youth about gender, sexuality and puberty - Gender Diversity - Gender Identity Development in Children (Healthychildren.org) - Gender Spectrum – Parents and Family - Ingersoll Gender Center - Lambert House - PFLAG - Queer Kid Stuff: Offers education for kids ages 3 and up on gender, sexuality and other identity topics - Stand With Trans - TransFamily Support Services - Transhealth Program (Washington Health Care Authority) Mental Health Resources How to Find a Therapist (PDF) (Spanish) - Mental health community resources - CalmHarm: An interactive app to help manage self-harm and stay safe. - Crisis Text Line: Text HOME to 741741 any time to start texting with a crisis counselor. - Love Is Respect: Support for healthy relationships and domestic violence prevention. - Trans Lifeline: Call 877-565-8860. Staffed by transgender individuals. - The Trevor Project: Call 866-488-7386. Peer support hotline run by and for trans people. - Trill: A moderated peer support app for LGBTQ+ teens. - Washington Mental Health Referral Service. Gender-Affirming Social Transition - Chest Binding (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Packing (PDF) (Arabic) (Russian) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Tucking (PDF) (Arabic) (Russian) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Menstrual Hygiene (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - How to Update Your Identifying Information (PDF) (Spanish) - Gender-Affirming Clothing (PDF) - Social transition community resources - Chest binder donations (Pointofpride.org) - Name change scholarship (Translifeline.org) - Binding and tucking safety (Callen-Lorde.org) - School community resources - LGBTQ Programs, Curriculum and Support (Seattle Public Schools) - Gender Diversity: Best Practices for Schools - Know Your Rights at School (National Center for Transgender Equality) - Students and Gender Identity: A Toolkit for Schools (USC Rossier) - LGBTQ+ Students of Color Resource Guide (Best Colleges) Gender-Affirming Medical Care - A Guide to Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy With Estrogen (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - A Guide to Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy With Testosterone (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Puberty Blockers (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Histrelin Placement and Removal (PDF) - Menstrual Suppression and Breakthrough Bleeding for Gender Diverse Youth (PDF) - How to Give Yourself Hormone Shots (PDF) (Spanish) - Coping With Injections and Blood Draws (PDF) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Fertility Preservation for Gender-Diverse Youth and Young Adults (PDF) (Simplified Chinese) (Somali) (Spanish) (Vietnamese) - Gender-Affirming Medical Care Educational Videos - Gender-Affirming Surgery - Gender-Affirming Care for Adults Legal Resources - Lavender Rights Project - National Center for Lesbian Rights (serves LGBTQ+ people of all identities) - Washington Medical-Legal Partnership Contact Us Contact the Gender Clinic at 206-987-2028 to make an appointment or for questions about scheduling. Youth or families who need additional support resources that are not available on our website can contact our care navigators at 206-987-5768. The care navigators are not able to assist with scheduling questions. Providers, see how to refer a patient. Please email us if there are resources you would like to see included on this page.