St. Louis Fed Earns Perfect Score on Corporate Equality Index The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis earned a perfect score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI) for its demonstrated commitment to an inclusive workplace culture. The index is released annually by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, which along with the Human Rights Campaign, serves as America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve LGBTQ+ equality. The St. Louis Fed has maintained the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality since 2016. “Maintaining a perfect score shows how committed the Bank is to ensuring employees feel seen, known and appreciated,” said Cassie Blackwell, senior vice president of the Treasury Operations Division and executive sponsor of Central Pride, the Bank's LGBTQ+ employee resource group. “I feel incredibly proud and honored to sponsor Central Pride, supporting employees in living authentically and providing a community to engage and educate about LGBTQ+ experiences.” The CEI 2023-24 index evaluates LGBTQ+ policies and practices, including nondiscrimination workplace protections, equitable benefits for LGBTQ+ workers and their families, supporting an inclusive culture and corporate social responsibility. The commission says the number of companies participating in the CEI continues to grow and this year’s results showcase how U.S.-based employers are promoting LGBTQ+ friendly workplace policies. “It was great working with people across the Bank to provide the Human Rights Campaign Foundation with a snapshot of all our efforts towards LGBTQ+ inclusion,” said Allison Beckmann, co-chair of Central Pride. “It shows that we, as an organization, have taken steps to ensure all of our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ community are included and considered in important conversations.” The St. Louis Fed joins the ranks of more than 545 U.S. employers that earned top marks this year. Visit the 2023-24 Corporate Equality Index for more information or to download the report. Learn more about the St. Louis Fed’s culture of diversity, equity and inclusion.