Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary, membership-based, employee-led affinity groups that celebrate employees’ identities and values. Each ERG aims to: - Share informational and educational resources with their members; - Foster a diverse, inclusive NPS: one in which all employees feel valued, and one which is a better equipped leader within our changing nation; - Develop future leaders who will recruit diverse, talented candidates and foster an inclusive workplace; - Deepen employee engagement by providing avenues for employees to identify, design, and implement efforts to improve employee morale and strengthen the NPS community; - Provide a safe space for employees to share their experiences, as well as to network, learn from, and support each other; and - Advise NPS leadership on issues relevant to the ERG, including employee recognition, enhancing cultural awareness, and identifying structural barriers that some employees face—and how to effectively remove those barriers. All NPS ERGs are open to all NPS and DOI employees and allies, regardless of personal identity or position within the organization. The Office of Relevancy, Diversity and Inclusion oversees and provides administrative support to the agency’s ERGs. Pleaes email us for more information about any of the employee resource groups. Learn more about what each does and how to join below: Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) Employee Resource Group The Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) ERG addresses the unique needs of Asian American and Pacific Islander employees, volunteers, interns, and visitors. The group collaborates with other NPS ERGs to advise senior leadership on policies and practices that support ERG members, and works to enhance the visibility of Asian American and Pacific Islander history and contemporary contributions in the national park system. Council for Indigenous Relevancy, Communication, Leadership and Excellence (CIRCLE) The Council for Indigenous Relevancy, Communication, Leadership, and Excellence (CIRCLE) is a resource for NPS employees to enhance their understanding of American Indian, Alaska Native, Pacific Island Native, and Indigenous (AI/AN/PIN/I) issues. Employee Empowerment Collective (EEC) The Employee Empowerment Collective (EEC) serves the agency by addressing the unique needs of African American employees and visitors. Employees for the Advancement of People with Disabilities Employees for the Advancement of People with Disabilities is working to learn how we can advance and improve the experiences of people with disabilities, whether it be in the office, digitally, or when experiencing our public lands. Hispanic Organization on Relevancy, Advising, Leadership and Excellence (HORALE) The Hispanic Organization on Relevancy, Advising, Leadership, and Excellence (HORALE) is s a service-wide resource for NPS employees at all levels to enhance and better understand national Latinx issues. Innovative Leadership Network (ILN) The Innovative Leadership Network (ILN) is dedicated to enhancing the culture of the NPS by fostering creativity, leadership development, communication, idea sharing, innovative action, and the empowerment of NPS employees at all levels. In so doing, we will make the NPS one of the best places to work in the federal government. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Employee Resource Group The LGBTQ ERG addresses the needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer employees, potential employees, visitors, and potential visitors. The group formed in April 2015 and endeavors to support interpretive opportunities for LGBTQ history in the National Park System and to assist the agency in improving the working environment for all through increased hiring, retention and visibility of LGBTQ employees. Women's Employee Resource Group (W-ERG) The Women’s Employee Resource Group (W-ERG) exists to support and empower women and NPS employees of all genders. The group works with employees and NPS leadership to identify and dismantle systemic gender bias within the NPS through education and advocacy. Recognizing the intersectional nature of identity, the W-ERG collaborates with other ERGs and non-NPS resources in support of workplace equity. Last updated: May 23, 2022