This video series talks about the history of the Stonewall uprising, the LGBTQ+ civil rights movement and Stonewall National Monument today. Check out these videos on our YouTube channel, or by clicking on the links below! The first episode in the 15-part series talks about Greenwich Village, the community around the Stonewall Inn, and the gay community that called Greenwich Village their home. Duration: - 5 minutes, 28 seconds - - Episode two of our 15-part series focuses on the Mafia's role in illegal gay bars and how the LGBTQ community had to survive on the streets because of the federal government's laws against them. Duration: - 5 minutes, 46 seconds - - The third video in our 15-part series talks about the Stonewall Inn being one of the last gay bars in New York that allowed dancing, how One Magazine fought for the right for people to mail material through the U.S. postal service that contained discussion of homosexuality, and the hardships that the LGBTQ community went through with NYC police. Duration: - 5 minutes, 23 seconds - - Enjoy the fourth video in our 15-part series about the Mattachine Society, Julius's Sip-In, and Bayard Rustin. Duration: - 4 minutes, 55 seconds - - The fifth video in our 15-part series is about the police raid on the Stonewall Inn, where people were when they heard the news of the uprising, who started it, and the typical activity of waiting outside of bars that were raided to watch the police bring out the arrestees. Duration: - 5 minutes, 20 seconds - - The sixth episode in our 15-part series is about the beginning stages of the crowd outside of the Stonewall pushing back against the police including many homeless LGBTQ youths. Duration: - 5 minutes, 27 seconds - - Episode 7 of our 15-part series discusses how a diverse collective of people were part of the uprising and all came together to fight against police oppression of the LGBTQ community. Duration: - 5 minutes, 6 seconds - - The eighth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument covers how the Village community was back then, the effect of Judy Garland's funeral, and Mrs. New Orleans. Duration: - 5 minutes, 54 seconds - - Please enjoy the ninth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument. This episode is about the Mattachine Society before Stonewall and the unrest in the 1960's. A new episode will be posted every Friday through October 1st. Follow #FifthAnniversaryFriday for new episodes on social media. Duration: - 5 minutes, 34 seconds - - The tenth video in our 15-part series is about the importance of the Stonewall Uprisings, the national attention that it received showed LGBTQ people across the nation that they were not alone, and the beginning stages of the creation of Stonewall National Monument. Duration: - 5 minutes, 22 seconds - - The eleventh video in our 15-part series is about the campaign techniques used to create Stonewall National Monument, the process of transferring the land from city to federal, and the concerns that people had about it becoming a national monument Duration: - 6 minutes, 1 second - - Episode 12 of our 15-part series is about the personal importance of Stonewall, how it has been used as a symbol for acceptance, and how Stonewall National Monument is an entry point into the history of the LGBTQ Civil Rights Movement. Duration: - 5 minutes, 47 seconds - - The thirteenth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument discusses how the trans community has created a larger conversation about gender roles in society, Stonewall being a place for celebrations, the transfer of Christopher Park from a City Park to a National Monument, and Stonewall being the birthplace of Pride. Duration: - 5 minutes, 25 seconds - - Episode 14 of our 15-part series is about the power of place that Stonewall National Monument gives to all of its visitors, the Gay Liberation statues in Christopher Park, and how the rangers engage with visitors at the park. Duration: - 5 minutes, 13 seconds - - The final video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument is about Stonewall National Monument being a liberating experience, the impact of the Stonewall Uprisings one year later in 1970, and Stonewall National Monument marching in the NYC Pride March. Duration: - 6 minutes, 47 seconds - - |