Mission: Spectrum is a lab resource group dedicated to building awareness and providing resources for the LGBTQ+ community to foster an environment of understanding, acceptance, and equality for all within the laboratory community. Vision: The group will focus on promoting equity at all levels, advancing LGBTQ+ friendly policies and benefits, promoting an inclusive and welcoming workplace environment, and participating in outreach activities. We welcome everyone who is interested in seeing our lab community grow stronger, safer, and more open. Spectrum is an inclusive community made up of people of all orientations with allies especially welcome; out or not, Spectrum needs you! Fermilab’s Spectrum is modeled after and will closely cooperate with Argonne National Laboratory’s Spectrum organization, formed in 2015. The two groups will hold joint events and trainings, but will remain separate entities. Participation in this lab-wide resource group is open to all employees, visitors, and guests of Fermilab. Getting Involved - An Inclusive Resources Guide is now available for the Fermilab community. The site includes benefits, procedures, points of contact, and more! - To join our Listserv, please send an email to listserv@fnal.gov with SUBSCRIBE SPECTRUM in the email body. - Add your pronouns to your Fermilab e-mail signature with this step-by-step guide. - Add your gender identity and chosen name to your workforce profile with this step-by-step guide. Celebrate 2024 Pride! Fermilab marched in the Aurora and Chicago Pride Parades in 2022 and 2023! Join our listserv for more information on 2024 events. June 6, 2024: SafeZone Training: This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity; what inclusion looks like; what a safe zone is; the science of gender; as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with questions. Continue celebrating Pride with us! Fermilab’s Creative Services department developed virtual backgrounds and social media graphics. They are available for download in the gallery. Resources and News News: - Fermilab’s Spectrum LRG represented the lab at oSTEM, January 11, 2024 - Fermilab Today emails now use preferred names in greetings, August 9, 2022 - Fermilab takes science to Pride, July 27, 2022 - Changing a name without forfeiting credit, Symmetry, July 28, 2021 - Scientific publishing organizations and national laboratories partner on transgender-inclusive name-change process for published papers, July 28, 2021 Tools: As a part of Inclusion Matters, Spectrum provides Safe Zone Training multiple times each year. This presentation available to the Fermilab community for ongoing reference here: Fermilab LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Presentation July 2023 Report: LGBT Climate in Physics [PDF] | APS, March 2016 Guide: LGBTQ + Inclusivity in Physics and Astronomy [PDF] | SGMA/AAS, April 2018 General Resources - Pronouns.org | Resources on personal pronouns - American Physical Society: LGBT+ Physicists | Resources on the LGBTQ+ issues and climate in physics - Lesbians Who Tech is a Community of Queer Women in or around tech (and the people who love them) - NOGLSTP | National Organization of Gay and Lesbian Scientists and Technical Professionals - Out Alliance | LGBTQ Education & SafeZone - oSTEM | Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics - Pride in STEM | A charitable trust for LGBT+ in Science, Engineering, Tech, and Maths - Point Foundation | The National LGBTQ Scholarship Fund LGBTQ Youth Resources - PFLAG (Northern Il. Council) | Supports LGBTQ people, their families and friends through local PFLAG chapter help lines, support group meetings and locally and nationally produced resources - Youth Outlook | Local group focused on providing support, safe space and drop-in centers for LGBTQ teens in Naperville, Elgin, DeKalb, Ottawa, Sterling, and Palatine - Resources for LGBTQ+ Youth by State Fermipoint: Spectrum Documents and Materials (login required) Contact Erica Snider or Pete Cholewinski for more information; Executive Sponsor: Steve Brice, PhD, Division Head, ND