From the Chicago Quantum Exchange, Oct. 29, 2020: Quantum technology experts from around the country will convene virtually from Nov. 11-13 to forge new partnerships amid an exciting year for quantum research. The third annual Chicago Quantum Summit will feature Anna Grassellino, director of the Superconducting Quantum Materials and Systems Center at Fermilab. meeting From APS News, October 2020: This summer, Fermilab scientist Marco Del Tutto spent weeks building the 3-D virtual rooms for the Neutrino 2020 conference. Like many conferences in 2020, the meeting occurred over the now ubiquitous application Zoom. But this conference had twists and flourishes: a poster session conducted in virtual reality, pixelated renderings of plants and couches, and Chicago-specific settings. Next week, scientists with connections to U.S. particle physics will make their morning coffee, boot up their computers and log in to a virtual community planning meeting with over 1,500 colleagues. The four-day gathering will set the stage for a process known as Snowmass, during which scientists will develop a collective vision for the next decade of U.S. particle physics research. The Snowmass process seeks to identify the most promising questions to explore in future research. From Quality Digest, July 30, 2020: There is a critical need for a platform and community to support the recruiting and grooming of individuals in the metrology workforce and those interested in entering a career in metrology. For many professionals, the Coordinate Metrology Society is that platform. Fermilab’s Jana Barker weighs in on the opportunity provided by the Coordinate Metrology Society Conference. From CERN Courier, July 23, 2020: Fermilab scientists Steve Brice and Sam Zeller and University of Minnesota scientist Marvin Marshak authored this article on the Neutrino 2020 conference, in which 4,350 people from every continent, including Antarctica, participated. The online program, hosted by Fermilab and the University of Minnesota comprised eight half-days over two weeks, four poster sessions with both web-based and virtual-reality displays, and the use of the Slack platform for speaker questions and ongoing discussions. From DOE, June 18, 2020: It’s Pride Month, and several national laboratories have employee resource groups to advance LGBTQ+ individuals equality, inclusion and diversity in the workplace. Fermilab physicist Erica Snider, a member of the LGBTQ+ laboratory resource group Spectrum and the lab’s Scientist Advisory Council, will participate in the panel discussion on June 23 called âA Day in the Life: A Panel Discussion about LGBTQ+ inclusion.â