Inclusion Matters is an annual series of lectures, trainings, and informational symposiums to give employees the tools they need to ensure we at Fermilab can foster a positive community and help to advance the efforts of equity, diversity, and inclusion. Past Inclusion Matters events are highlighted on the archives page, and many workshops and programs are recorded. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with inquiries. 2024 Program Descriptions & Event Registration Info Accessibility accommodations are available for all Inclusion Matters events. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with questions. Inclusion Matters 2024: Workplace Culture: Psychological Safety. Physical Safety. Psychological safety is fundamental to physical safety. In our workplace, psychological safety ensures contributors at all levels feel included, and are safe to learn, to contribute ideas and to voice concerns without fear of ridicule or retaliation. This series explores identity and inclusion through a variety of lenses to highlight the importance of psychological safety. Remembering Dr. King: 1929 –1968 January 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Charles E. Betha While Martin Luther King Jr.’s activism focused on dismantling systems that oppressed African Americans in the South, he also spent time in Chicago and often spoke out on the realities of northern discrimination, particularly on the issues of poverty, education, and housing. In “Remember Dr. King,” Bethea discusses key moments in Dr. King’s work with a focus on his time in Chicago. National Mentoring Month: Supporting Our Future Workforce: Supervising and Mentoring Interns Information Sessions: January 10, 17; Mentoring Panel: January 24 Informative Sessions: Mallory Bowman Panelists: Marco Mambelli, Frank S Chlebana, Genfa Wu Looking forward to summer 2024, this informative session prepares the Fermilab community to welcome interns to the laboratory. The session will review guidelines and expectations for supervising interns and provide valuable tips on supervision and mentoring. In addition, a panel of experienced supervisors will share their experiences, offer advice, and answer participant questions. Black History Month: Oral History Workshop February 13; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: Valerie Higgins Fermilab archivist Valerie Higgins will highlight the powerful impact of preserving history through storytelling. The workshop will share impactful techniques for conducting interviews to preserve your own family history. National Engineers Week: Meet-and-Greet: fSWE, SHPE, and NSBE February 22; 1 – 2 p.m.; IERC The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility will showcase three professional chapters, the Society of Women Engineers, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, and the National Society of Black Engineers, available for the Fermilab community as part of National Engineers Week Black History Month: The Bloomington-Normal Black History Project (BNBHP) February 28; 1 – 2 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Jeff Woodard The Bloomington-Normal Black History Project (BNBHP) founded in 1982 and its collections span the 19th and 20th centuries. The McLean County Museum of History will introduce Dr. Mildred Platt’s contributions to the project and virtually share its collection of photographs, portraits, booklets, articles, and photocopies related to club organizations and churches of the local Black community. International Women’s Day: Cracking the Confidence Code March 6; 1 – 2:15 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Alexis Kanda-Olmstead A hidden force that undermines women’s career and leadership ambitions is self-doubt. In this session, we will unpack why it is so hard for women to feel confident, bust common myths about confidence, and identify research-based strategies to build confidence that do not include “acting more like a man.” Women will leave with a two-week goal to build their confidence and a long-term action plan to achieve a personal or professional aspiration. All are encouraged to attend. Deaf History Month: Deaf Culture – Postponed Speaker: Thomas Holcomb, PhD Deaf History Month recognizes the contributions of the deaf and hard of hearing community. It’s celebrated from March 13 to April 15; The first school for the deaf in the United States was founded on April 15, 1817, and on April 8, 1864, Gallaudet University was founded. Then, on March 13, 1988, Gallaudet University hired the first deaf president, Irving King Jordan. From Service to Science: Veterans Pathways to Fermilab March 27; 1 – 2 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Oscillatorium (WH13NW) Speaker: Leslie Garcia The Courageous Conversations series is designed to increase awareness of and engagement with our military-affiliated colleagues. This engaging presentation explores the exciting possibilities that arise when combining military experience and national laboratory exposure. The combination can lead to fulfilling and impactful contributions. Deaf History Month: Advancing scientific discourse in American Sign Language April 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Colin Paul Lualdi For deaf and hearing alike working in STEM fields, language modeling is often how fluency is developed in technical discourse. Our teachers, mentors and co-workers introduce us to the language used to engage with our work, whether in educational, research, or other settings. As a part of a broader effort to make STEM fields more accessible, deaf scientists have been working to increase the availability of resources modelling effective science communication in American Sign Language. Green Zone Training April 17; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: Terrell Odom, PhD Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month: Processing Cultural Trauma: Intergenerational effects of the Japanese American Incarceration May 8; 1 – 2:15 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Donna Nagata, PhD Following the World War II Japanese military attack on Pearl Harbor, the U.S. government moved all persons of Japanese ancestry away from the West Coast and sent them to desolate incarceration camps, where they lived for up to 4 years. Two thirds were American citizens. The mass removal was portrayed as necessary to protect against potential acts of disloyalty that might be committed by individuals with Japanese heritage, even though evidence at the time did not support this rationale. Although the camps closed after the war ended, consequences from the unjust imprisonment have continued to affect Japanese Americans over time. This presentation describes these long-term impacts for U.S.-born incarcerees, as well as the transgenerational impacts on their postwar children and grandchildren. Mental Health Awareness Month: National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Family & Friends May 14; 10 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) DuPage This seminar provides insight on how best to support loved ones with a mental health condition (depression, anxiety disorders, eating disorders, etc.). Trained presenters with lived experiences of supporting a family member with a mental health condition will walk participants through: • Understanding diagnoses, treatment, and recovery • Effective communication strategies • The importance of self-care • Crisis preparation strategies • NAMI and community resources Pride Month: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training June 6; 10:30 a.m. –12 p.m.; Curia II (WH2) Speaker: Anne E. Heavey & Jason Michael St. John This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Juneteenth: African American Quilting June 12; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Sharbreon Plummer, PhD Join Dr. Sharbreon Plummer as she discusses the significance of quilt making to Black art history and cultural preservation. She will offer a look into the practice, its evolution as a communal art form and how contemporary quilters continue to engage soft politics through their creative practice. Laboratory Resource Group (LRG) Fair June 27; 1 – 2 p.m.; Atrium (WH1) The Fair invites all members of the Fermilab community to meet LRG representatives to learn about the groups’ missions and visions, their yearly activities, and opportunities to get involved. Green Zone Training July 1; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Terrell Odom, PhD Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Disability Pride Month: Neurodiversity 101 July 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Meredith Nicholson Disability Pride Month is celebrated in July as it marks the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in 1990. It’s a time to create visibility and to celebrate people with disabilities. The workshop provides participants with an overview of the neurodiversity movement, key terms and ways to support neurodivergent individuals in the workplace. Among topics covered will be the over lap of experiences between the LGBTQ+ Community and neurodivergent individuals. Additionally, the speaker will go over mock scenarios and be able to answer any questions. The workshop is co-sponsored by the Spectrum and FACts LRGs. LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training July 17; 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m.; One West (WH1W) Speaker: Pete Cholewinski & Erica Snider This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Intern Day: Where Are You Going? Goal Setting for Personal and Professional Success July 24; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Goal setting gives you long-term vision and short-term motivation. The process of setting goals allows you to choose where you want to go in your personal life as well as your professional career. A life without goals is like a road trip without a map. By knowing exactly what you want to achieve, you are less likely to get lost, and you will be happier and less frustrated along the way. Emotional Intelligence August 14; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Avoiding Burnout: Self-Assessment Methods and Strategies for Self-Care September 11; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Hispanic Heritage Month: The National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture September 30; 1 – 2 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Billy Ocasio The National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture is in Humboldt Park. A virtual tour will highlight the museum’s mission, history, current exhibitions and opportunities for the public to engage. National Coming Out Day: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training October 2 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m. One West (WH1W) Speaker: Pete Cholewinski & Erica Snider This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Veterans Day: Green Zone Training November 6; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: UChicago – Office for Military-Affiliated Communities (OMAC) Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Veterans Day: From Service to Science: Veterans Pathways to Fermilab November 20; 1 – 2 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Oscillatorium (WH13NW) Speaker: Chandler E. Lawrence The Courageous Conversations series is designed to increase awareness of and engagement with our military-affiliated colleagues. This engaging presentation explores the exciting possibilities that arise when combining military experience and national laboratory exposure. The combination can lead to fulfilling and impactful contributions. EDIA Recognition Awards December 4; 11 – 12 p.m.; Wilson Hall 15th fl Crossover South The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility will recognize members of the Fermilab community for their contributions in advancing equity, diversity, inclusion and accessibility at the lab. Questions? Contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran, Diversity & Inclusion Specialist for Climate, Culture and Belonging