Fermilab is committed to promoting a safe, respectful, inclusive, diverse, equitable, accessible and professional work environment for the advancement of all its employees. Every member of the laboratory community plays a role in shaping a workplace culture of belonging that values, develops, rewards, retains and proactively supports the potential of a diverse workforce. Ensuring Fermilab provide resources and offerings to make informed healthcare decisions is critical to our commitment to inclusion. Employment Non-Discrimination Statement Fermilab is an Equal Opportunity Employer and believes a diverse and inclusive environment based on mutual respect is essential to our mission. Fermilab is committed to recruiting and developing the most hardworking people and does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, ethnicity, color, religion, age, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, military/veteran status, country of birth, geography/postal code, disability, marital status, parental or gestational status, or other non-merit factor. Human Resources: askHR@fnal.gov This LGBTQ+ Benefits Guide provides a comprehensive summary to: Readily reference critically important resources - Confidentially identify healthcare options - Easily identify points of contact - Concerns Reporting Fermilab Office of General Counsel (OGC): ogc@fnal.gov Human Resources Business Partners Fermilab Security Department: Emergency: 630-840-3131 - Non-Emergency: 630-840-3414 - Resources: Spectrum Community Laboratory Resource Group (LRG) Updating your gender identity and legal and chosen names in FNAL HCM Workday Submitting legal documents to Human Resources Support from Blue Cross Blue Shield Gender pronouns in e-mail signature Wellbeing/Employee Assistance Program FRA LGBTQ+ Benefits Guide Detailed information is available on the HR Inclusive Benefits website Gender Inclusive Marriage Benefits Medical Health / Medical - Vision - Dental - Dependent Coverage - COBRA benefits - Other FMLA - Bereavement - Supplemental Life Insurance - Employee Assistance Program - Relocation/travel Assistance - Family Formation Benefits Adoption Assistance - Cryopreservation (for 1 year) - Foster Care Assistance - In-vitro Fertilization - Paid Family Leave (non-FMLA) - Transgender-Inclusive Healthcare Services and Treatment Options Reconstructive surgical procedures related to gender affirmation (including reconstructive chest, breast, and genital procedures) - Medical visits and laboratory services - Pharmaceutical coverage (e.g., hormone replacement therapies, including puberty blockers) - Short-term medical leave - Mental Health benefits - Treatment for Gender Dysphoria With a diagnosis of and treatment for gender dysphoria and deemed medically necessary: Hair removal, such as electrolysis, laser treatment, etc. - Hair removal required for reconstructive surgery - Tracheal shave/reduction - Facial feminization surgeries - Voice modification surgery - Voice modification therapy - Lipoplasty – filling for body masculinization or feminization - HIV Services and Treatment HIV testing including self-treatment options - Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) including injectable treatment - Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) - Antiretroviral therapy (ART) including injectable treatment - Points of Contact Health Benefits: BCBS Services and Support for LBGTQ Members: https://www.bcbsil.com/member/member-resources/lgbtq-support Blue Cross Blue Shield PPO – Group # P56727; 1-800-548-4686, www.bcbsil.com Blue Cross Blue Shield HDHP – Group # PI1340; 1-800-828-3116, www.bcbsil.com Blue Advantage HMO – Group # B51346; 1-800-892-2803, www.bcbsil.com Express Scripts Pharmacy PPO (PPO and HDHP Only); 1-866-814-7105, www.express-scripts.com Fermilab Benefits Office: benefitsoffice@fnal.gov Coming out and gender transition guide Not everyone is familiar with what it means to transition, so a Fermilab employee has compiled online resources below for employees and supervisors who are interested in learning: How does one decide to transition? The experience of being transgender is characterized by “gender dysphoria.” The Mayo Clinic explains gender dysphoria. To put it simply, it is not a choice whether you are transgender or not. However, it is a decision that one makes – to decide that you need to transition to alleviate the distress and pain caused by continuing to live as your assigned-at-birth gender. The American Psychological Association answers several questions people may have about trans people. - Gender Transition Process: The gender transition process is very personal and is different for everyone. Generally, it involves social and medical transitions. Social transition is when a person starts living as their identified gender in their personal, public, and professional lives. Medical transition generally involves any number of medical procedures that one may or may not undergo. - Terminology: There are expansive glossaries of terms that may be very helpful in speaking conversationally and technically. - Fermilab Resources: Spectrum is Fermilab’s LRG for the LGBTQ+ community. Spectrum’s webpage (https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum/) has some good resources. The “Resources & Tools” section has two documents that are specifically tailored to people in the world of physics. - Questions? Contact the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility at inclusion@fnal.gov