|Home | En Español | Contact Us | A to Z | Pryde of accomplishment in redevelopment of former school Boston celebrated Pride Month in historic fashion on June 17 as officials broke ground on The Pryde, the first LGBTQ-friendly affordable senior housing community in the city. HUD Assistant Deputy Secretary for Field Policy and Management, Michele Perez, joined City of Boston Mayor Michele Wu; Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley; Massachusetts Lt. Governor Karyn Polito and other key partners to celebrate the historic groundbreaking. "At HUD, we are focused on housing and community development with a dedication to equity, inclusive communities, and quality, affordable homes for all," said HUD Assistant Deputy Secretary Perez. "HUD's greatest hope is that these efforts are sustainable and become a normal, natural way we operate. That is why it is so inspiring to be here to break ground on The Pryde today." When complete, the renovations of the former Barton Rogers School will preserve the beauty of the original 1899 building and its two additions while creating 74 new mixed-income rental units that will be welcoming to seniors 62 years and older. All units will be deed-restricted in perpetuity and will provide affordable, safe housing for seniors across a wide variety of incomes, including eight units for individuals who are homeless or who require rental assistance. "As Boston's resident's age, the need for safe, income-restricted housing that is welcoming to all remains essential," said Mayor Wu. "This new development will be an incredible asset to the neighborhood, offering seniors housing, along with gardens, walking trails, an art studio with gallery space, and other community benefits. I look forward to our work ahead to make more of these projects a reality." The Pryde is located near shops and restaurants, public transportation and a variety of cultural and outdoor amenities. "LGBTQ seniors face higher rates of housing discrimination, lower incomes, higher unemployment, and increased food insecurity," said Aileen Montour, president of LGBTQ Senior Housing, Inc. "We are proud to work closely with all project partners to help address this inequity in Boston through affordable, inclusive housing and set an example for other cities throughout the country." The project includes $825,000 in HUD HOME funding. ### |Content Archived: January 3, 2024