Affordable Care Act Generosity Begins at Home Reading Time: 1 Minute With the year coming to an end and the holidays upon us, I want to wish you and your family a healthy and safe holiday season. This is a time of reflection for all of us. A time to embrace the season’s spirit of generosity and selflessness. We like to give to our loved ones […]Continue reading "Generosity Begins at Home" → Tags: Affordable Care Act, Disability Obamacare Offers New Protections for LGBTQ Americans Reading Time: 1 Minute As we celebrate LGBTQ Enrollment Week of Action, millions of Americans—including many LGBTQ people—are already covered by health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act. And millions more can get covered before January 31, 2017. For many in the LGBTQ community, access to health care might not seem like much of a priority. But health […]Continue reading "Obamacare Offers New Protections for LGBTQ Americans" → Tags: Affordable Care Act, Disability, LGBT, social security disability benefits Act Now! Open Enrollment for Affordable Healthcare Reading Time: 1 Minute Affordable healthcare is something that all Americans deserve. Before the Affordable Care Act (ACA), millions of people and their families were at risk of financial ruin because they were uninsured. Health insurance companies could also deny health insurance coverage due to a preexisting condition like cancer or diabetes. Fortunately, you are now protected with the […]Continue reading "Act Now! Open Enrollment for Affordable Healthcare" → Tags: Affordable Care Act Thankful for Access to Healthcare Reading Time: 1 Minute Thanksgiving is the time we reflect on what we’re thankful for. As it happens, this is also open enrollment season for the Affordable Care Act. Embracing the spirit of both events, I’m thankful for access to quality, affordable healthcare and for my son’s health. Did you find this Information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your […]Continue reading "Thankful for Access to Healthcare" → Tags: Affordable Care Act, Disability, social security, Social Security benefits, SSA Trust Fund Reserve Gains One Year for Projected Depletion Date Reading Time: 1 Minute By now, you’ve probably heard that this year marks the 80th anniversary of the signing of the Social Security Act. In case you didn’t know, this year is also the 75th anniversary of the payment of the first monthly benefits. And, today, the Social Security Board of Trustees released the 75th annual report to Congress […]Continue reading "Trust Fund Reserve Gains One Year for Projected Depletion Date" → Tags: Affordable Care Act, social security, SSA