social security disability benefits Don’t Get Schooled — Be Prepared with Social Security Reading Time: 1 Minute Your summer job has ended, so there’s no better time than now to start planning for retirement. You can easily be ahead of the game and secure your future with a few simple steps. As a millennial, you are in the best position for planning, investing, and saving for your retirement, growing that nest egg […] Continue reading "Don’t Get Schooled — Be Prepared with Social Security" →Tags: Disability, my Social Security, my Social Security account, retirement benefits, Social Security benefits, social security disability benefits Knowing where you stand now with Social Security will pay off Reading Time: 1 Minute For most people, Social Security is a mystery. We see that 6.2 percent deduction on our pay stubs and wonder: What does it mean for my financial future? The answers: A lot. And not enough. After tax season, take a few minutes to go online and read your Social Security statement. Even if your retirement […] Continue reading "Knowing where you stand now with Social Security will pay off" →Tags: Disability, retirement, retirement benefits, Social Security benefits, social security disability benefits, Social Security statement, survivors benefits Prepare for your disability interview: tips from Social Security Reading Time: 1 Minute When a person becomes disabled, it can be a very stressful time in their life. There are many questions and unknowns when you have to transition out of the workforce due to medical issues. While an employer may offer short or long-term disability, most people faced with a disability will file for benefits with Social […] Continue reading "Prepare for your disability interview: tips from Social Security" →Tags: Disability, Social Security benefits, social security disability benefits, Social Security taxes, SSI, supplemental security income There’s Plenty You Should Know About Social Security Disability Benefits! Reading Time: 1 Minute Life is unpredictable. When something interrupts your plans, it’s good to know there’s a way to supplement your income, in case of an unexpected life event. Social Security has a strict definition of disability based on your inability to work and provide for yourself and your family. Disability benefits are available only to people with […] Continue reading "There’s Plenty You Should Know About Social Security Disability Benefits!" →Tags: Disability, Social Security benefits, social security disability benefits, SSI, supplemental security income Celebrating Those Who Provide Care Reading Time: 1 Minute November was National Family Caregivers Month. In his Presidential Proclamation in celebration of caregivers, President Obama reminds us that our great nation was founded on the ideal that we all do better when we look out for one another. For millions of Americans, this concept is more than an ideal. It’s a day-to-day reality. Did […] Continue reading "Celebrating Those Who Provide Care" →Tags: Disability, representative payee, social security disability benefits Keeping our Disability Programs Updated Reading Time: 1 Minute As we continue to reflect on the 60th anniversary of Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) this year, it’s worth noting some of the ways the program has evolved over time. A lot has changed since DI started in 1956! We continuously work to ensure our programs keep pace with rapid changes in medical care, healthcare […] Continue reading "Keeping our Disability Programs Updated" →Obamacare Offers New Protections for LGBTQ Americans Reading Time: 1 Minute As we celebrate LGBTQ Enrollment Week of Action, millions of Americans—including many LGBTQ people—are already covered by health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act. And millions more can get covered before January 31, 2017. For many in the LGBTQ community, access to health care might not seem like much of a priority. But health […] Continue reading "Obamacare Offers New Protections for LGBTQ Americans" →Tags: Affordable Care Act, Disability, LGBT, social security disability benefits Disability Insurance (DI) Facts Reading Time: 1 Minute Social Security disability payments are modest, but they keep some families financially afloat. Did you find this Information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Continue reading "Disability Insurance (DI) Facts" →Relief for Thousands Suffering from Alzheimer’s Disease Reading Time: 1 Minute Today, there are nearly 5.4 million Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease. While most people associate the disease with old age, there are 200,000 Americans under the age of 65 living with it today. As with all forms of the disease, Early Onset Alzheimer’s is a progressive, terminal disease, which cannot be prevented, cured or even […] Continue reading "Relief for Thousands Suffering from Alzheimer’s Disease" →We Need Your Insights on Telehealth and Telemedicine Reading Time: 1 Minute What is the National Disability Forum? The National Disability Forum is an open conversation where members of the public, community leaders, and Social Security employees come together to talk about the disability programs. Social Security uses these meetings to listen to you and your community leaders so we can learn what’s important to you. Your […] Continue reading "We Need Your Insights on Telehealth and Telemedicine" →Tags: Disability, Social Security benefits, social security disability benefits