Drawing upon decades of experience, RAND provides research services, systematic analysis, and innovative thinking to a global clientele that includes government agencies, foundations, and private-sector firms. The Pardee RAND Graduate School (PardeeRAND.edu) is home to the only Ph.D. and M.Phil. programs offered at an independent public policy research organization—the RAND Corporation. Assistant Policy Researcher, RAND, and Ph.D. Fellow, Pardee RAND Graduate School Assistant Policy Researcher, RAND; Ph.D. Student, Pardee RAND Graduate School Research Brief Nov 15, 2023 This brief describes potential interventions to boost recruitment and retention in Virginia’s health care workforce and increase its structural efficiency. Commentary Aug 30, 2023 This Perspective presents key information needs for stormwater practitioners in the Mid-Atlantic region and provides recommendations that would support more effective stormwater planning, design, and management in the face of climate change. Multimedia 5:10 RAND researchers discuss recommendations for more effective stormwater planning, design, and management in the Mid-Atlantic region in the face of climate change. Journal Article Jul 13, 2023 Using a regression discontinuity design, we identify externalities in human capital production function arising from sibling spillovers. We find that the presence of immigrant students has a positive effect on the academic achievement of U.S.-born students, especially for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. In this study, we show that test-based remediation programs in middle school could have unintended tracking consequences, especially among Black students. Report Jul 11, 2023 Researchers look at the student data to which Florida mathematics teachers have access and discuss whether teachers have the data they need to inform instructional decisions. Jun 22, 2023 The study examined how changes in 2-1-1 call volume after two public health emergencies in Broward County, Florida, varied by emergency type and whether variations differed by gender and over time. Jun 1, 2023 The authors of this report draw on a nationally representative survey of K–12 public school teachers from March and April 2022 to examine working conditions that are related to teacher well-being in the United States. May 23, 2023 This Perspective builds on the research findings from a related RAND Corporation report on a North Carolina initiative to support college students' basic needs with strategies to improve the uptake and effectiveness of such initiatives nationally. May 13, 2023 Policies restricting discussion of LGBTQ+ issues and representation of LGBTQ+ individuals are likely to make schools less welcoming to America's estimated two million LGBTQ+ youth. Policymakers should develop policies that cultivate learning and work environments where all students and educators feel safe and valued. Apr 5, 2023 The authors examine how the Findhelp online "social care network," which connects students to services that provide basic needs assistance, was implemented at four community colleges in North Carolina, its costs, and its impacts on student success.