CDC'S Adolescent and School Health Program: Protecting our Nation's Youth from HIV, STDs and Pregnancy This fact sheet shows the effectiveness of school health programs and connectedness strategies in reducing negative health behaviors among youth. This fact sheet shows the effectiveness of school health programs and connectedness strategies in reducing negative health behaviors among youth. Stress is a part of every teenâs life, even more so during intense challenges such as a pandemic, racial discrimination, and life transitions. However, uncontrolled stress can cause serious health problems and increase the risk that students may use drugs to attempt to deal with stressors, including... This teaching guide discusses when taken as prescribed, prescription stimulants can safely and effectively treat ADHD. However, misusing them has serious health risks, including addiction. In this lesson, developed in partnership with Scholastic, students read the article âWhat You Need to Know... This report examines the experiences of Black LGBTQ students with regards to the indicators of a negative school climate and how this impacts academic achievement, educational aspirations, and psychological well-being. This board provides resources for educators working in our nationâs schools to promote healthy behaviors and connects youth to credible health services. This Advisory offers recommendations for supporting the mental health of children, adolescents, and young adults. While many of these recommendations apply to individuals, the reality is that people have widely varying degrees of control over their circumstances. As a result, not all recommendations... In 2023 alone, over 600 anti-LGBTQ bills have been passed, in some cases making it harder for teachers and allies to signal their support for their LGBTQ students. This guide to suggests a few tips on how to let LGBTQ young people know that someone is a safe person to turn to. This lesson plan will discuss with many states legalizing the use of cannabis for adults 21 and over, teens may have questions about whether the drug is safe. Teen brains are still developing, and so are particularly vulnerable to negative health effects of cannabis, such as memory problems and...