Other Partners The Let’s Stop HIV Together campaign (formerly Act Against AIDS) has had the strong voices of key spokespersons to carry HIV prevention messages to communities across the nation. Entities such as Black Entertainment Television Networks, Bronner Brothers Enterprises, GLAAD, Grindr, the Red Pump Project, Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation, National Minority AIDS Council, and many others have conducted HIV prevention activities at the local and national level in collaboration with the campaign. Black Entertainment Television Networks is the nation’s leading provider of quality entertainment, music, news and public affairs television programming for the African American audience. Website: http://www.bet.com/ The Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation was established in 1991 by Elizabeth Taylor to support organizations delivering direct care and services to people with HIV and AIDS, often to the most marginalized populations. GLAAD amplifies the voice of the LGBT community by empowering real people to share their stories, holding the media accountable for the words and images they present, and helping grassroots organizations communicate effectively. Website: http://www.glaad.org/ Grindr is the world’s #1 FREE mobile social networking application geared towards gay and bisexual men. Though based in the United States, the app quickly gained worldwide popularity. In 2014, the app had achieved more than 10 million user downloads and had more than 5 million active monthly users worldwide. The Latino Commission on AIDS is a nonprofit membership organization dedicated to fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS in the Latino community. Through its network of member organizations and community leaders, the commission works to mobilize the Latino community response to the health crisis created by HIV/AIDS. Website: https://www.latinoaids.org/ The National LGBTQ Task Force is the country’s oldest national LGBTQ advocacy group. Task Force envisions a future where everyone is free to be themselves in every aspect of their lives and to that end, works to advance full freedom, justice and equality for LGBTQ people. Website: http://www.thetaskforce.org/ The National Minority AIDS Council (NMAC) is dedicated to developing leadership within communities of color to address of challenges of HIV/AIDS. Through its youth initiative, NMAC aims to develop future leaders among a cadre of youth scholars to take action to end HIV/AIDS in their communities. Website: http://www.nmac.org/ The Young Black Gay Men’s Leadership Initiative (YBGLI) is a national movement of young black men addressing issues disproportionately affecting their peers. YBGLI has a particular focus on HIV prevention, care, and treatment.