Best Practices: Creating an LGBT-inclusive School Climate This information kit includes Recommendations for creating an affirming environment for all children and youth and addressing related problems in schools. This information kit includes Recommendations for creating an affirming environment for all children and youth and addressing related problems in schools. This resource kit presents an overview of current health issues among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) populations. While many challenges exist with regards to the availability of data, this kit aims to create awareness among prevention specialists and healthcare providers of the needs... This report examines the experiences of Black LGBTQ students with regards to the indicators of a negative school climate and how this impacts academic achievement, educational aspirations, and psychological well-being. In 2023 alone, over 600 anti-LGBTQ bills have been passed, in some cases making it harder for teachers and allies to signal their support for their LGBTQ students. This guide to suggests a few tips on how to let LGBTQ young people know that someone is a safe person to turn to. This brief examines the rates of body dissatisfaction and its relationship with suicidality among a diverse sample of LGBTQ youths. This brief seeks to expand the understanding of Black young people창s mental health by specifically exploring mental health indicators as well as protective factors among Black transgender and nonbinary young people. This report provides the most recent surveillance data, as well as 10-year trends, on health behaviors and experiences among high school students in the United States (U.S.) relating to adolescent health and well-being. Since 2019, The Trevor Project's annual national surveys have been among the largest and most diverse surveys of LGBTQ young people in the U.S. For the first time ever, they're publishing their findings of their national survey, which captured the experiences of nearly 34,000 LGBTQ people ages 13-24... Harassment and discrimination against LGBTQ+ students are against the law. Unfortunately, many LGBTQ+ students still experience them every day. Here창s what students need to know. For some of us, accessing the supportive and fabulous communities we deserve can be hard to do offline. That창s why Instagram can be a great place to engage with LGBTQ inclusive and life- affirming content and communities. As the world창s largest suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization...