Search Results Deeper Look: Transgender People and HIV This webpage from AIDSVu looks into the intersection between transgender individuals and HIV. It discusses that in the United States, the discrimination against people in the transgender community extends into the healthcare system, leading to disparate outcomes in medical care and preventive... Working with LGBT Students of Color: A Guide for Educators The following considerations are meant to help educators think more deeply about the experiences of LGBT students of color and their needs. It is not an exhaustive list, but one that was created in hopes of inspiring additional thoughts and questions amongst school staff. Erasure and Resilience: The Experiences of LGBTQ Students of Color This report examines the experiences of Black LGBTQ students with regards to the indicators of a negative school climate and how this impacts academic achievement, educational aspirations, and psychological well-being. Top Health Issues for LGBT Populations Information & Resource Kit This resource kit presents an overview of current health issues among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) populations. While many challenges exist with regards to the availability of data, this kit aims to create awareness among prevention specialists and healthcare providers of the needs... Best Practices: Creating an LGBT-inclusive School Climate How to Signal You are an Ally in a Hostile Environment In 2023 alone, over 600 anti-LGBTQ bills have been passed, in some cases making it harder for teachers and allies to signal their support for their LGBTQ students. This guide to suggests a few tips on how to let LGBTQ young people know that someone is a safe person to turn to. Research Brief: LGBTQ Youth and Body Dissatisfaction This brief examines the rates of body dissatisfaction and its relationship with suicidality among a diverse sample of LGBTQ youths. Research Brief: Mental Health of Black Transgender and Nonbinary Young People This brief seeks to expand the understanding of Black young peopleâs mental health by specifically exploring mental health indicators as well as protective factors among Black transgender and nonbinary young people. Youth Risk Behavior Survey Data Summary & Trends Report: 2011â2021 This report provides the most recent surveillance data, as well as 10-year trends, on health behaviors and experiences among high school students in the United States (U.S.) relating to adolescent health and well-being.