St. Louis Fed Recipes for rural prosperity as populations change Some rural areas are shrinking as young people move away, while others are absorbing an influx of newer US residents. What should rural communities consider as their populations shift? - Lifting voices: The power of Fed community development advisory councils The Fed involves community development advisory councils to consider diverse perspectives from low-income communities when making decisions about monetary policy. - Why Rural Matters to the Fed The Fedโs Rural Learning Community (RLC) shares knowledge about what affects rural communities and how best to foster opportunity in rural areas. - [Watch] A Community Approach to Disaster Recovery Recovering from natural disasters can be difficult for underserved communities, with limited access to disaster funds & insurance. The Federal Reserve & FEMA share how their programs can help low- to moderate-income communities respond. Watch or listen on demand. - Mike Eggleston bridges communities through collaborative research, partnership building Mike Eggleston uses collaboration and research to expand partnerships in lower- income communities with the goal of increasing economic mobility for residents. - The economic realities faced by LGBTQ+ adults When it comes to financial security, LGBTQ+ adults have fewer resources than their non-LGBTQ+ counterparts. Not only do disparities in financial well-being exist between these two groups, but evidence also suggests inequality in mental health. - [Watch] Two sides of one child care dilemma Families want quality early childhood education (ECE) but itโs often competitive to access and costly, especially for care during nontraditional hours. Providers face financial constraints of their own. What does recent research reveal? Watch or listen on demand. - Why equitable access to quality child care matters to the economy Affordable, high-quality child care can be difficult for parents to access. Here is what Fed researchers have learned about supply constraints and demand challenges that hinder equitable access to quality child care. - [Watch] Adapting to COVID-19: Impacts on Lower-Income Communities and Organizations Serving Them in 2022 How can organizations use the Fed’s 2022 National COVID-19 Community Impact Survey data to advocate for themselves and those they serve? In this webinar, experts share their tips. Watch or listen on demand. - Serving communities in a recovering economy From housing support to mental health interventions, nonprofit organizations are playing a major role in mitigating economic uncertainty brought on by the pandemic. -