VA has renewed its focus to foster a safe and inclusive environment for all Veterans and employees. VA’s new mission statement reflects a new VA that is intent on creating an environment where all have equitable opportunities to thrive, including women, LGBTQ+ individuals and underserved populations. “To fulfill President Lincoln’s promise to care for those who have served in our nation’s military and for their families, caregivers, and survivors.” This statement reflects the changing needs of VA’s evolving population. VA serves more minority populations, LGBTQ+ individuals and women Veterans now than ever before. “Approximately 25% of the people we serve are women, and we need to bring that 25% home,” said Toni Hightower, Army Veteran and acting team lead at VA’s Center for Women Veterans. As a former VA police officer and member of the LGBTQ+ community, Hightower’s experience has provided her with a well-rounded view toward improving the cultural health of VA. “Women need to stand up and be heard” “There is so much work that has been done and still so much more to do,” Hightower added. “The life of every Veteran matters. We don’t get the same equality as men. Women need to stand up and be heard. We count. We matter. We can only do that if we unite and start empowering one another.” Empowering all who served includes providing a space for all Veterans who identify as female and educating others at VA about the importance of equitable care. Hightower has led LGBTQ+ webinars that focus on learning more about transgender Veterans and understanding how to use pronouns to show respect and reduce the number of harassment incidents. In a recent podcast interview conducted by McKinsey & Company, diversity, equity, and inclusion expert Diana Ellsworth said that “Every time we use inclusive language, we give a positive signal. This is a safe environment where LGBTQ+ employees are respected and valued.” “If we take time to understand each other.” Transgender men and women are twice as likely to hear sexist jokes about people of their gender and three times more likely to feel they can’t talk about their life outside of work. VA’s renewed mission statement emphasizes the commitment to support all the heroes who have served our country, regardless of race, gender, background, sexual orientation, religion, zip code or identity. “We have to empower people to learn,” Hightower said. “It’s my thought that I can plant the seed for change. I want people outside of my box to grow to think different. If we take time to understand each other, we can really make VA a place of belonging for all Veterans and employees.” White Ribbon VA is a national call to action that encourages individuals to commit to eliminating sexual harassment, sexual assault and domestic violence throughout the organization. The White Ribbon VA pledge encourages everyone to commit to making a change and to stand against violence. “I think White Ribbon VA is a good start,” said Hightower. “It’s representative of the issue. It’s great knowing VA sees the problem and that we are doing something about it.” Document your pledge and show your support for a harassment-free VA by committing to the White Ribbon VA Pledge. Stand up against unwanted behavior today and be a part of VA’s new mission to care for all those who have served, and create a safer, more welcoming environment for all. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If you’re a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care – should you need it – through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.