Center for Minority Veterans (CMV) VA Resources CMV Black History Month Program February 1, 2024 - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 8, 2023 (Password: 3VmRfnh*) - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 15, 2023 (Password: jWuBhM$3) - African American Employment Program - African American Organizations - - Other Resources - Black or African American Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Historically Black Universities and Colleges - VA Resources - Other Resources - Native American and Alaska Native Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Tribal Colleges and Universities - VA Resources - Other Resources - AANHPI Veteran Service Organization or Nongovernmental Organizations - Asian American and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions - VA Resources 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month message from the Secretary - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (Password: rUViF7Q$) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Heritage Foundation (Password: pGEmdq?3) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: The American Latino Veterans Association (Password: JuJTQ7Z?) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (Password: Gpx3mXS?) - Hispanic Employment Program - Hispanic Organizations - Statistics - - Hispanic and Latine Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Hispanic Serving Institutions - A message from the Secretary for LGBTQ+ Veterans - VBA LGBT Service Members and Veterans - VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program - VA LGBTQ+ Health Program Patient Education, Resources, and Outreach Materials - CMV LGBTQ+ Veterans VA Life and PACT Act Webinar (Password: XdtbUv@5) - Transgender American Veterans Association - External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. U.S. Federal/Military Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. Non-Government Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. VA does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of the linked web site.