Many people donât think twice about scheduling an appointment with a doctor. Their biggest barriers may be insurance concerns or finding the time for a visit. But what if you avoid seeking care because of historic attitudes toward your sexual orientation or gender identity? This is the situation many Veterans who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or another minority orientation (LGBTQ+) face. Further complicating matters is the fact that LGBTQ+ people have greater rates of experiencing suicidality and suicide attempts than their non-LGBTQ+ peers, not due to their sexual orientation or gender identity but because of health care disparities and discrimination. LGBTQ+ people are not inherently prone to suicide risk. Being aware of risk and protective factors can make it possible to provide appropriate and relevant emotional support when itâs wanted or needed. Listening to and validating someoneâs emotions are two quick ways to help in situations where someone needs support. Providers can also offer visible LGBTQ+-affirming care and a welcoming environment. On a larger scale, there are things anyone can do to help LGBTQ+ Veterans. The first step Being affirming of Veteransâ identities is essential. One difficulty in finding support for LGBTQ+ Veterans and to help lower their suicide risk is that many of their specific risk factors are directly related to discrimination, access to care and health equity issues. These things arenât easy to change immediately because theyâre part of a cultural bias toward LGBTQ+ Veterans. More importantly, community members and health care providers can address the barriers and discrimination LGBTQ+ Veterans experience to help reduce this risk factor by talking about why sexual orientation and gender identity matter in health care. Being aware of other risk factors can empower LGBTQ+ Veterans to get support. Here are some things to think about: Loneliness and social isolation. Increased physical and emotional support from your family, friends, co-workers and others can lower suicide risk. Consider joining an LGBTQ+ Veteran group or one devoted to your hobby, or start a group if you canât find one. Veterans Service Organizations, such as local or national LGBTQ+ Veteran groups, are also good places to find people who understand Veterans and the unique challenges they face. For more information, visit the VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program â Patient Care Services site. - Firearm ownership. Firearms are the leading cause of suicide among Veterans, and studies tell us LGBTQ+ Veterans are twice as likely to own a gun (a significant independent risk factor for suicide) when compared to non-LGBTQ+ Veterans. Learn about safe and secure firearm storage to help lower your risk. - Economic and social issues. Homelessness, bias in the military and employment instability are just some factors that can increase suicide risk for LGBTQ+ Veterans. If youâre a Veteran who is homeless or experiencing housing instability, find resources offered by VAâs Homeless Programs. If you need help with job training, education, employment accommodations, resume development and job-seeking skills coaching, VAâs Veteran Readiness and Employment program can offer assistance. - Sexual orientation and gender identity matter in health care. LGBTQ+ Veterans face increased health risks and unique challenges in accessing affirming health care, especially if providers donât ask about sexual orientation and gender identity. VHA is working to assure that high-quality careâincluding suicide preventionâis provided to LGBTQ+ Veterans in a person-centered andÂ respectful environment. Learn more about talking to your provider by reading these patient education brochures. Every facility has a local LGBTQ+ Veteran care coordinator (LGBTQ+ VCC). - Resources for Veterans and their loved ones You can find answers to frequently asked questions, how to upgrade your character of discharge from the military, and patient education information about health risks for specific subgroups of LGBTQ+ Veterans through VHAâs LGBTQ+ Health Program. Talk to your local LGBTQ+ VCC to find out what services are available at the facility nearest to you. We offer a range of resources available toall Veterans, not just those enrolled in VA benefits or health care: Veterans Crisis Line is a free, 24/7 confidential resource that connects Veterans and their loved ones to a caring, qualified responder. Dial 988 then press 1, chat online at at the Veterans Crisis Line, or text 838255. - VA Mental Health. VAâs repository of mental health and suicide prevention resources, information and data materials. - The National Resource Directory connects wounded warriors, Veterans, service members, their families and caregivers to national, state, and local services and resources. - If you care about a Veteran who identifies as LGBTQ+, you donât have to feel powerless. Small actions, like starting a conversation, can make a big difference. For more information, including how to identify signs of crisis, see our Crisis Conversation Handout. To read more stories on LGBTQ+ health care, visit VA News and Information. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If youâre a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care â should you need it â through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.