Research indicates that individuals in the LGBTQ+ community are disproportionately affected by hate crimes, particularly those who identify as transgender. Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR), observed annually on Nov. 20, recognizes experiencers of anti-transgender violence to shine a light on the persistence of these crimes and to memorialize those who have experienced them. A report by the Human Rights Watch, a nonprofit that investigates and reports on abuses happening around the world, states that âThe violence and discrimination that transgender people experience is deeply intersectional, with different forms of vulnerability shaped by race, gender, class, ability and nationality, among other factors. In 2020, more than three-quarters of the transgender and non-binary people killed in the United States were people of color, with Black transgender women at particular risk of violence.â VA is dedicated to respectful, safe, and welcoming environments for all. As a way to honor that commitment, VA has placed an emphasis on ensuring individuals from the LGBTQ+ community have equal opportunity and access to adequate health care. An environment free of harassment It is a strategic priority to create an environment free of harassment, including gender-based harassment and sexual assault that allows Veterans, employees, family members, caregivers, and survivors feel empowered to bring their whole, authentic selves to work. In 2021, the White House honored TDoR through several key actions: - Issued a statement, citing that at least 46 lives were lost so far in 2021 (in the U.S.), the deadliest year for anti-transgender violence - Held a vigilÂ in recognition of transgender and gender-diverse people lost to violence - Called for the passing of the Equality Act - Released a reportÂ explaining several actions taken by the Administration to address the root cause of anti-trans violence and discrimination During this day of Transgender Remembrance, we ask Veterans, family members, caregivers, survivors and VA employees to stand up for one another and show their support to put an end to crimes directed toward individuals who identify as transgender. What you can do - Take the White Ribbon VA Pledge to stop violence against others and wear the white ribbon: I, [your name], pledge to never commit, excuse or stay silent about sexual harassment, sexual assault or domestic violence against others.Â Document your commitment: www.whiteribbonusa.org/whiteribbon-va-pledge. - Learn how to protect yourself and those around you with VAâs Bystander Intervention Training If you experience harassment or sexual assault If you experience or witness inappropriate behavior taking place at a VA facility, report it to the VA Police, a Patient Advocate, or your Primary Care Provider immediately. All reports of harassment and sexual assault will be investigated. For more information, visit the Veterans Health Administrationâs Assault and Harassment Prevention Office home page. To learn more about VHAâs LGBTQ+ Health Program, visit VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program – Patient Care Services (va.gov). Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. Statement of Endorsement Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. More Stories Simulation goal is to train health care providers and local emergency responders to react in adverse situations. Twin clinicians Kyler and Skyler provide physical, cognitive and leisure development to support Veteransâ chosen life pursuits. VHAâs National SimVET Center was the center of robotics in health care during the Autonomous Caregivers Robotic Demonstrations.