Transgender Day of Visibility is observed March 31. This observance […] For Veterans in gender transition, finding their voice can be enhanced with the help of specially trained speech-language pathologists. TA-NET is a therapeutic approach for Gender Diverse and Transgender Veterans that puts emphasis on sharing personal narrative holistically. Retired Army Col. Sheri Swokowski is the highest-ranking, out transgender U.S. Veteran in the United States. Today, she advocates for LGBTQ+ Veterans. LGBT Veterans choose to receive health care through VA because they find inclusive and affirming quality care from supportive providers. Every facility has an LGBT Veteran care coordinator. Navy Veteran Marilu Fanning and Army Veteran Dylan Liebhart have followed different journeys through life. Different upbringings, generations and military services. Yet, the two share a passion for helping fellow Veterans receive the care theyâve earned. They have advice for fellow LGBT and Related Identities Veterans. VA North Texas is committed to serving the needs of its LGBTQ population. There are approximately one million lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/or questioning (LGBTQ) Veterans in the US. Earlier this week, Secretary Denis McDonough ordered a review of VA policies to ensure that transgender Veterans and employees do not face discrimination on the basis of their gender identity and expression. Paula M. Neira believes that her greatest service for the country and the Navy has come after she put away her uniform. Before she became a nurse, lawyer and advocate, she was an officer in the Navy. Neira had to sacrifice her naval career when she accepted that her gender identity didnât align with the sex assigned at birth. For 39 years, not a single soul knew of her secret. Finally, free to be who she has always longed to be, Army Veteran Francis Garcia is now able to express her true and pure self. âSince I was very young, I had no idea what being transgender was, all I know is I would go to bed and ask God â God wake me up as a girl," Garcia said. "I would pray and pray and wake up each time as not a girl."