The links below provide resources and publications for clinicians, researchers, and other health professionals related to the health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning, Intersex, and Asexual (LGBTQIA+) individuals. These resources include information about training to help providers develop skills to deliver culturally-responsive and evidence-based treatment, recovery and prevention services for LGBTQIA+ populations dealing with substance use and mental health disorders; and to recognize the impact that LGBTQIA+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. Resources: Webinar: LGBTQ+ Mental Health in Rural Communities Date: June 6, 2023, 2:00 pm ET This session will focus on the lived experienced of LGBTQ+ identifying folks in rural communities across the country. Discussion and dialogue will focus on mental health, the relationship to stress, and more. Learn more and register. SAMHSA Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Behavioral Health Equity Resources on the LGBTQI+ population include national survey reports, agency and federal initiatives, and related behavioral health resources. Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity provides behavioral health practitioners with vital information on supporting the population of people identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, two-spirit, and other diverse orientations, gender identities, and expressions. Through training, coaching, and technical assistance, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health is implementing change strategies within mental health and substance use disorder treatment systems to address disparities effecting LGBTQ+ people across all stages of life. Positive environments are important to help all youth thrive. However, the health needs of LGBT Youth can differ from their heterosexual peers. On this page, find resources from the CDC, other government agencies, and community organizations for LGBT Youth, their friends, educators, parents, and family members to support positive environments. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) LGBTQI+ Communities and Resources HHS has taken many steps to strengthen the health resources available to LGBTQI+ Americans. This page provides resources and information about some of those steps and how they have impacted the LGBTQI+ communities. Library of Congress LGBTQ Pride Month Resources Find resources including research guides for LGBTQ+ and Artists, Business and the Workplace, and Sports and Recreation; Arts & Sciences; Civil Rights and Government; and Literature and Poetry. National organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning youth. SAMHSA has a multi-pronged approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ individuals with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, which builds on the Presidentâs Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075). CLAS Webinar Series : Building Bridges of Inclusion: Empowering LGBTQ+ Awareness and Allyship (webinar on Thursday, June 29, hosted by Central East ATTC) The purpose of this webinar is to integrate CLAS Standards of care with ways to build bridges of equity and inclusion within a healthcare setting for meaningful service to the LGTBQ+ community. Learn more & register here. Reframing Language Guide (National Hispanic & Latino ATTC, February 2023): This free resource is designed to bring attention to the power of person-first language. The guide was created in collaboration by the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center, the National Federation of Families, the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence, the Center of Excellence for Behavioral Health Disparities on Aging, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity, Severe Mental Illness Advisor, the National Alliance on Mental Health, and SAMHSA. El consumo de sustancias en la comunidad LGBTQ+ (Northeast & Caribbean ATTC, June 2022): This Spanish-language module makes visible the effects of stigmatization and marginalization in the LGBTQ+ community and how they are more likely to present depression, anxiety, and substance use disorders, compared to the heterosexual population. Health service providers will learn about LGBTQ+ population, be able to understand the social determinants that affect them and identify their needs. Also, they will learn language free of stigma and how to integrate sensitivity approaches and intervention strategies that respect their diversity. Facilitating Trauma-Informed Culture Change in Recovery-Oriented Systems: A Consultantâs Guide (Mid-America ATTC, February 2023): Our colleagues at the Mental Health Technology Transfer Center Network have created a landing page with resources supporting LGBTQ+ mental health. These resources are for professionals, the community, and allies: SAMHSA Releases New Data on Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Behavioral Health The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) today released a new data report Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Behavioral Health: Results from the 2021 and 2022 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health, indicating that lesbian, gay, and bisexual adults are more likely than straight adults to use substances, experience mental health conditions including major depressive episodes, and experience serious thoughts of suicide. âWe know that statistically, lesbian, gay and bisexual Americans face increased risks for mental health and substance use issues, which is often related to stress caused by stigma, discrimination and harassment,â said HHS Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Miriam E. Delphin-Rittmon, Ph.D., and the leader of SAMHSA. âSAMHSA is committed to addressing this issue by increasing services and supports for LGBTQI+ individuals.â SAMHSAâs approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ people with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, builds on the Presidentâs Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075).