Please find the slides and the video for the Substance Use Disorder and the LGBTQ+ Community: Assessing the Impact of Compounded Stigma and Treatment Considerations on October 30 and November 6 from 1 pm - 2:30 (CST). Substance use is a complex issue that affects individuals from all walks of life, including the LGBTQ+ community. Members of this community face unique challenges when seeking help for addiction. Stigma, shame, and a lack of family support can all make it difficult for LGBTQ individuals to access the resources they need to overcome substance use disorders. Additionally, growing anti-LBGTQ legislation can further exacerbate these issues, creating a hostile environment for individuals struggling with addiction. Darla Belflower has worked in substance use disorder and behavioral health for over three decades. She started a training and consultation business in 2022. She is a member of The Missouri Behavioral Health Council’s Culture, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (CEDI) Committee. She is also Vice Chair of the Kansas City Recovery Coalition and is active in the Kansas City Recovery Community. Being in long-term recovery from a substance use disorder inspired her to write her memoir, I Am Not Anonymous. She has also authored two booklets and is writing a workbook on Substance Use Disorder and Trauma that will be released in the spring of 2025. Ms. Belflower is a Clinically Licensed Social Worker in both Missouri and Kansas, a Licensed Addiction Counselor in Kansas, a Certified Reciprocal Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselor in Missouri, a Certified Peer Specialist, a Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist, a Certified Harm Reduction Specialist, and a trainer and educator of Narcan distribution. Darla and her wife live in Kansas City, Missouri, and enjoy spending time with their daughter. She is passionate about teaching and training so that others may learn how to help those most vulnerable individuals she has enjoyed working with. CEUs are pending. Please email Bree at [email protected] for any questions.