The links below provide resources and publications for clinicians, researchers, and other health professionals related to the health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning, Intersex, and Asexual (LGBTQIA+) individuals. These resources include information about training to help providers develop skills to deliver culturally-responsive and evidence-based treatment, recovery and prevention services for LGBTQIA+ populations dealing with substance use and mental health disorders; and to recognize the impact that LGBTQIA+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. Allyship in Action Webinar -June 6, 2024 (11:00 am MT) Mountain Plains ATTC is starting off Pride Month with a presentation to provide foundational knowledge to enhance participants' work with a diverse population. This webinar is designed to further develop understanding of LGBTQIA2S+ allyship and move toward solidarity. The session aims to help participants identify inclusive practices, skills, and resources to support LGBTQIA2S+ communities and demonstrating a commitment to the practice of allyship. Increasing your Effectiveness in Working with LGBTQ+ Populations Webinar -June 11, 2024 (12:00 pm MT) This is beginner friendly, data focused training covers LGBTQ+ identity, outcomes, and increasing patient engagement in services. The training will give participants a broad understanding of LGBTQ+ culture, demographic terms, the data on population experiences, and tools that can be used in patient care and within an organization as a whole. The training will make individuals more comfortable and confident when interacting with and treating LGBTQ+ communities. SAMHSA Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Behavioral Health Equity Resources on the LGBTQI+ population include national survey reports, agency and federal initiatives, and related behavioral health resources. Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity provides behavioral health practitioners with vital information on supporting the population of people identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, two-spirit, and other diverse orientations, gender identities, and expressions. Through training, coaching, and technical assistance, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health is implementing change strategies within mental health and substance use disorder treatment systems to address disparities effecting LGBTQ+ people across all stages of life. National organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning youth. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) LGBTQI+ Communities and Resources HHS has taken many steps to strengthen the health resources available to LGBTQI+ Americans. This page provides resources and information about some of those steps and how they have impacted the LGBTQI+ communities Library of Congress LGBTQ Pride Month Resources Find resources including research guides for LGBTQ+ and Artists, Business and the Workplace, and Sports and Recreation; Arts & Sciences; Civil Rights and Government; and Literature and Poetry SAMHSA has a multi-pronged approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ individuals with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, which builds on the PresidentâsÂ Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075).