Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Identifying and Serving LGBTQ Youth: Case Studies of Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Grantees This report from the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) highlights the findings from case studies of four agencies receiving grants from the ACF Family and Youth Services Bureau’s Runaway and Homeless Youth Program. It includes information on the collection and use of sexual orientation and gender identity data, needs and capacities among LGBTQ runaway and homeless youth, approaches to serving this population, and gaps in research and services for practitioners and policymakers to consider. LGBT Populations: A Snapshot of the Knowledge Base and Research Needs These chapter briefs summarize the knowledge base and research needs related to low-income, at-risk lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and their interactions with human services. The briefs are separated into three topic areas: Low-income and at-risk LGBT populations - The child welfare system and LGBT youth and LGBT adults - LGBT youth, particularly related to runaway and homeless youth and sexual health - Meeting the Needs of Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming Youth The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth released a Q&A with Shannon Minter, legal director at the National Center for Lesbian Rights, featuring tips for working specifically with transgender and gender non-conforming youth. Podcast: Teen Pregnancy Prevention for LGBTQ Youth In a podcast featured in the latest update from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, Bryan Samuels, commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families, and Andrew Barnett, executive director of the Sexual Minority Youth Assistance League, discuss the need to include lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth in teen pregnancy prevention efforts. Primary Sources: Learning How Service Providers and Policy Makers Can Help LGBTQ Homeless Youth This article provides information about a research review that aimed to determine directions for research, public policy, and practice related to serving homeless youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning. The article also includes potential implications of the research for policies and practices of youth-serving organizations. Researchers at Harvard Medical School conducted the research review. Resources for Serving Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides a list of resources for those serving LGBT youth including helpful publications and LGBT-youth focused organizations. Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Centers This resource provides technical assistance to runaway and homeless youth programs. The Economic Well-Being of LGB Youth Transitioning Out of Foster Care This report describes the characteristics and economic well-being of young people aging out of foster care who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB). Voices from the Field: LGBT-Friendly Teen Pregnancy Prevention This podcast by the National Clearinghouse on Youth and Families (NCFY) features program coordinator at the Bristol HUB Youth Center in Vermont, Ryan Krushenick, who leads a popular teen pregnancy prevention curriculum tailored to be welcoming to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth. He talks to NCFY how to practice inclusive teen pregnancy prevention work. NCFY Voices: Does It Get Better for LGBTQ Teens? In this podcast, Michelle Birkett, a researcher at Northwestern University's Feinburg School of Medicine, describes a study she co-authored on the mental health and victimization of LBGTQ youth and how it progresses over time. 5 Online Resources to Help Domestic Violence Programs Offer Inclusive Services to LGBTQ People NCFY has compiled a list of resources that can help anti-violence programs provide inclusive services to LGBTQ youth. This information is pertinent to organizations that receive funding authorized through the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, as they are required to provide mainstream services to survivors who identify as LGBTQ. Increasing Visibility of Low-Income LBGTQ Hispanic Families In an effort to help programs and policies better serve low-income Hispanic children and families, the National Research Center on Hispanic Children & Families developed this article, which describes the composition of low-income LGBTQ Hispanic families. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Report: Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex The Urban Institute released a report (PDF, 94 pages), supported by OJJDP, on involvement in the juvenile justice, criminal justice, and child welfare systems and youth engaging in survival sex who self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ); young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with woman (YWSW). The report offers practice and policy recommendations to repurpose law enforcement-based responses to youth engaged in survival sex and services to meet their needs without system involvement. Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Resource: Helping Youth Prevent Suicide Among Their LGBTQ Peers This article highlights free resources educators and youth service providers can use to implement the Trevor Project’s Lifeguard Workshop, a program encouraging young people to be “lifeguards” for one another by having the knowledge to help in a crisis. Professionals can request a free, in-person workshop or use the resources highlighted in the article to create personalized trainings. Report: Recommendations of the LGBT Subcommittee: Advancing the Reform Process for LGBQ/GNCT Youth in the Juvenile Justice System This report (PDF, 11 pages) summarizes the recommendations of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Subcommittee of the Federal Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice to OJJDP on strategies to advance juvenile justice reform for lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning/gender nonconforming, transgender (LGBQ/GNCT) youth. The recommendations are grouped into four categories: Policy and program development, - Training and technical assistance, - Data collection and research, and - Federal LGBT juvenile justice coordination. - "Safe Harbor" Laws: A Systemic Approach to Addressing Child Sex Trafficking This module was created by the National Human Trafficking Resource Center to help service providers understand the intent of “Safe Harbor” legislation and learn about states that have enacted it. 'Margins of the Margins': FYSB Grantee Coordinates Response to Trafficking in New York Edwin Gould Services for Children and Families, a New York City-based program, is one of three programs chosen to participate in a two-year demonstration project aimed at helping victims of severe trafficking. In this article, a representative from the organization discusses the project’s goals and wider efforts to combat trafficking in New York. Bought and Sold: Helping Young People Escape from Commercial Sexual Exploitation This booklet provides youth workers with an overview of the issue of human trafficking as well as concrete information about how to help survivors. Information about populations of youth that may be more at risk for trafficking, signs of sexual exploitation, tips for providing appropriate supports and services to survivors, and suggestions for when to involve the victim’s family and the police are included. Bright Idea: Emergency Shelters Look for Human Trafficking When Youth Walk in the Door This article provides tips for youth workers on recognizing youth who may be survivors of sexual exploitation. The article notes that many youth will seek services for other issues and, if made to feel comfortable, will divulge their experience with trafficking. The article recommends that youth workers have the knowledge to recognize the signs of trafficking, go appropriately off-script in their interactions with youth if they suspect trafficking is taking place, and maintain a non-judgmental stance when speaking with youth to build trust. Confronting Commercial Sexual Exploitation and Sex Trafficking of Minors in the United States This OJJDP-sponsored report, released by the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council, aims to strengthen prevention, identification, and response efforts by offering recommendations for the response to commercial sexual exploitation and trafficking of minors. Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) FYSB supports the organizations and communities that work every day to reduce the risk of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy and domestic violence. Learn more about FYSB programs. Guidance to States and Services on Addressing Human Trafficking of Children and Youth in the United States The Administration on Children, Youth, and Families released, “Guidance to States and Services on Addressing Human Trafficking of Children and Youth in the United States,” which advises runaway and homeless youth programs and child welfare workers on identifying, engaging, and serving victims of human trafficking. Recommendations include using reliable assessment tools that focus on areas affected by trafficking, adapting evidenced-based interventions for this population, keeping facilitaties safe and educating young people on what to do if they are approached, and familiarizing yourself with resources and programs available to trafficking survivors.