Federal Resources SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. After a Suicide: A Toolkit for Schools, Second Edition This toolkit, developed by the Suicide Prevention Resource Center, can assist schools in implementing a coordinated response to the suicide death of a student. This second edition includes new information and tools that middle and high schools can use to help the school community cope and reduce suicide risk. Resource: A Strategic Planning Approach to Suicide Prevention This free online course, developed by the Suicide Prevention Resource Center, offers strategic planning recommendations to consider when building or expanding a suicide prevention program. Professionals responsible for suicide prevention in states, communities, organizations, schools, or workplaces can use this information to identify key risk factors, set long-term goals for the program, and implement interventions and evaluations. Preventing Suicide: A Toolkit for High Schools This toolkit represents the best available evidence on preventing suicide among high school students. It contains recommended steps and accompanying tools to help schools create and implement strategies and programs that promote behavioral health and prevent suicide.