Federal Resources Child Maltreatment, 2013 ”Child Maltreatment, 2013” (PDF, 250 pages) is the 24th edition of the annual report on child abuse and neglect data collected through the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System. According to the report, from 2009 to 2013, overall rates of victimization declined from 9.3 to 9.1 per 1,000 children in the population. Child Abuse Prevention Month Activities The Administration for Children and Families’ Child Welfare Information Gateway provides these resources on the “Preventing Child Abuse and Neglect” section of its website in order to support preparation for National Child Abuse Prevention Month in April. Children's Bureau The Children's Bureau (CB) is one of two bureaus within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Administration for Children and Families, of the Department of Health and Human Services. The Children's Bureau seeks to improve the safety, permanency and well-being of children through leadership, support for necessary services, and productive partnerships with states, tribes, and communities. It has the primary responsibility for administering federal programs that support state child welfare services. Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) FYSB supports the organizations and communities that work every day to reduce the risk of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy and domestic violence. Learn more about FYSB programs. FYSB: New Video Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides news and resources related to issues such as homelessness, adolescent pregnancy, and domestic violence. Watch FYSB's new video “The Family and Youth Services Bureau — Join Us” to learn more about FYSB work and programs. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Identifying and Serving LGBTQ Youth: Case Studies of Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Grantees This report from the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) highlights the findings from case studies of four agencies receiving grants from the ACF Family and Youth Services Bureau’s Runaway and Homeless Youth Program. It includes information on the collection and use of sexual orientation and gender identity data, needs and capacities among LGBTQ runaway and homeless youth, approaches to serving this population, and gaps in research and services for practitioners and policymakers to consider. LGBT Populations: A Snapshot of the Knowledge Base and Research Needs These chapter briefs summarize the knowledge base and research needs related to low-income, at-risk lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and their interactions with human services. The briefs are separated into three topic areas: - Low-income and at-risk LGBT populations - The child welfare system and LGBT youth and LGBT adults - LGBT youth, particularly related to runaway and homeless youth and sexual health Meeting the Needs of Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming Youth The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth released a Q&A with Shannon Minter, legal director at the National Center for Lesbian Rights, featuring tips for working specifically with transgender and gender non-conforming youth. National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth (NCFY) NCFY is a free information service for Community, organizations, and individuals interested in developing new and effective strategies for supporting young people and their families. Their website includes youth development resources, funding announcements for FYSB's programs, free publications, and a calendar of conferences and trainings. New Directions in Child Abuse and Neglect Research Released by the National Academies’ Institute of Medicine and National Research Council, and commissioned by ACYF, “New Directions in Child Abuse and Neglect Research” examines current research on the extent, causes, and consequences of child abuse and neglect. This report provides recommendations for establishment and implementation of a coordinated national infrastructure to support future research on child abuse and neglect. Podcast: Victims of Sex Trafficking The Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth produced a podcast featuring a Miami street outreach worker, who specializes in helping victims of sex trafficking, discussing how to approach and help sexually exploited youth. Podcast: Teen Pregnancy Prevention for LGBTQ Youth In a podcast featured in the latest update from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, Bryan Samuels, commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families, and Andrew Barnett, executive director of the Sexual Minority Youth Assistance League, discuss the need to include lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth in teen pregnancy prevention efforts. Primary Sources: Learning How Service Providers and Policy Makers Can Help LGBTQ Homeless Youth This article provides information about a research review that aimed to determine directions for research, public policy, and practice related to serving homeless youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning. The article also includes potential implications of the research for policies and practices of youth-serving organizations. Researchers at Harvard Medical School conducted the research review. Resources for Serving Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides a list of resources for those serving LGBT youth including helpful publications and LGBT-youth focused organizations. Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Centers This resource provides technical assistance to runaway and homeless youth programs. The Economic Well-Being of LGB Youth Transitioning Out of Foster Care This report describes the characteristics and economic well-being of young people aging out of foster care who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB). The Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act: 40 Years of Safeguarding America’s Children This report commemorates the 40th anniversary of the passage of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act and the impact this legislation has had on the field of child maltreatment. Voices from the Field: LGBT-Friendly Teen Pregnancy Prevention This podcast by the National Clearinghouse on Youth and Families (NCFY) features program coordinator at the Bristol HUB Youth Center in Vermont, Ryan Krushenick, who leads a popular teen pregnancy prevention curriculum tailored to be welcoming to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth. He talks to NCFY how to practice inclusive teen pregnancy prevention work. NCFY Voices: Does It Get Better for LGBTQ Teens? In this podcast, Michelle Birkett, a researcher at Northwestern University's Feinburg School of Medicine, describes a study she co-authored on the mental health and victimization of LBGTQ youth and how it progresses over time. 5 Online Resources to Help Domestic Violence Programs Offer Inclusive Services to LGBTQ People NCFY has compiled a list of resources that can help anti-violence programs provide inclusive services to LGBTQ youth. This information is pertinent to organizations that receive funding authorized through the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, as they are required to provide mainstream services to survivors who identify as LGBTQ. Increasing Visibility of Low-Income LBGTQ Hispanic Families In an effort to help programs and policies better serve low-income Hispanic children and families, the National Research Center on Hispanic Children & Families developed this article, which describes the composition of low-income LGBTQ Hispanic families. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Resource: Preventing Child Abuse and Neglect This webpage features a list of resources related to child abuse prevention, protecting children from risk of abuse, and strengthening families.