Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources 3 Bold Steps for School Community Change Based on the lessons learned from the Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative, the toolkit cultivates an approach that has left a legacy of success in schools and communities. This toolkit will show you how partnerships with representatives from sectors including education, law enforcement, mental health, juvenile justice, children’s services, families, and faith-based associations can take Three Bold Steps to create positive lasting change among our nation’s students. Caring for Our Children: National Health and Safety Performance Standards Guidelines for Early Care and Education Programs These national standards represent the best evidence, expertise, and experience in the country on quality health and safety practices and policies that should be followed in today's early care and education settings. This is the fourth edition of this report (PDF; 626 pages). Caring for Every Child's Mental Health SAMHSA's "Caring for Every Child's Mental Health" public awareness effort was created in 1994 with the mission to increase awareness around children's mental health. Children's Health Insurance Program The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) provides free or low-cost health coverage for more than 7 million children up to age 19. CHIP covers U.S. citizens and eligible immigrants. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations. Center for Mental Health Services CMHS leads Federal efforts to treat mental illnesses by promoting mental health and by preventing the development or worsening of mental illness when possible. Creating a Vision for Afterschool Partnerships This tool is intended to help the growing number of new after school partnerships create a shared vision for their work. Coordinated School Health Program Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Student (WSCC), is recommended by CDC as a strategy for improving students' health and learning in our nation’s schools. These site outline the rationale and goals for WSCC, provide a model framework for planning and implementing WSCC, and offer resources to help schools, districts, and states improve their school health programs. Healthy People 2020 Healthy People provides science-based, ten year national objectives for promoting health and preventing disease. H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu): Resources for Child Care and Early Childhood Programs This resource from the CDC provides articles and other resources for parents and educators dealing with H1N1. Health Resources and Services Administration The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the primary Federal agency for improving access to health care services for people who are uninsured, isolated or medically vulnerable. Injury and Violence Prevention and Control Information from the CDC on the topics of injury and violence prevention, including topic areas, publications, and other resources. Maternal and Child Health Library The MCH Library is a virtual guide to MCH information. It offers a combination of MCH information compiled by library staff and pathways to the best MCH information available on other Web sites, from organizations, and in libraries. Media-Smart Youth Media-Smart Youth: Eat, Think, and Be Active! is an interactive after-school education program for young people ages 11 to 13. It is designed to help teach them about the complex media world around them, and how it can affect their health--especially in the areas of nutrition and physical activity. National Institutes of Health National Institutes of Health is the nation's medical research agency-making important discoveries that improve health and save lives. National Immunization Program This site acts as the central source of information on vaccines and immunizations for Center for Disease Control and Prevention. National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth (NCFY) NCFY is a free information service for Community, organizations, and individuals interested in developing new and effective strategies for supporting young people and their families. Their website includes youth development resources, funding announcements for FYSB's programs, free publications, and a calendar of conferences and trainings. Playground Injuries Fact Sheet Fact sheet about playground injuries in the United States. Includes an overview, occurrence, and cost information. School-Located Vaccination Planning Materials and Templates These documents were designed to provide information for planning and conducting school-located 2009 H1N1 influenza vaccination clinics that target school-aged children enrolled in school and potentially other groups in the community. The page also includes a link to CDC's seasonal flu information. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves. Youth Advisory Councils Youth Advisory Councils (YACs) provide ongoing advice and support to school districts on policies and practices that affect students. This webpage provides a detailed overview of Youth Advisory Councils (YACs). It describes the role YACs play in improving the schools and communities they serve, discusses how they can use data to make decisions and create action plans, and outlines the structure of a YAC. A Provider’s Introduction to Substance Abuse Treatment for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Individuals This manual, prepared for the CSAT seeks to inform administrators and clinicians about appropriate diagnosis and treatment approaches that will help ensure the development or enhancement of effective LGBT-sensitive programs. SAMHSA has also funded the development of a 22-module training curriculum to accompany this publication. A Practitioner’s Resource Guide: Helping Families to Support Their LGBT Children This guide aims to educate practitioners working in a wide range of settings about the role of family acceptance and rejection in contributing to the well-being of young people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) and to help them implement best practices in engaging families to support their LGBT children. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. How Are the Lives of LGBTQ Youth Improved by Gay-Straight Alliances? This article, featured by the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, discusses a recent study released in the School Social Work Journal that compared 284 lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning (LGBTQ) youth in schools with gay-straight alliances with LGBTQ students in schools without those alliances to discern whether the presence of such organizations improved outcomes for young people. The study suggests that membership in a gay-straight alliance has some positive effects on LGBTQ youth, but more research is necessary.