Youth who receive special education services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA 2004) and especially young adults of transition age, should be involved in planning for life after high school as early as possible and no later than age 16. Transition services should stem from the individual youth’s needs and strengths, ensuring that planning takes into account his or her interests, preferences, and desires for the future. Transitioning to Adulthood Although many youth experience a smooth transition into adulthood and the workforce, some encounter challenges in finding or maintaining employment. Because LGBTQ+ youth may experience less supportive school environments than their non-LGBT peers, they may struggle in school and, in turn, have higher school dropout rates or have lower aspirations for postsecondary education than other populations of youth1 These potentially negative school experiences can affect the postsecondary outcomes of LGBTQ+ youth as they transition into employment or postsecondary education. Also, LGBTQ+ youth may have difficulty finding, and need support identifying, jobs and higher education opportunities that are affirming and safe. Colleges and Universities In looking for postsecondary educational opportunities, LGBT youth may want to consider a college’s or university’s climate relative to the experiences of LGBTQ+ students. The Campus Pride Index is a resource for youth to find higher-education learning environments that are welcoming to LGBTQ+ youth. The index assesses eight factors: LGBTQ+ Policy Inclusion - LGBTQ+ Support and Institutional Commitment - LGBTQ+ Academic Life - LGBTQ+ Student Life - LGBTQ+ Housing - LGBTQ+ Campus Safety - LGBTQ+ Counseling and Health - LGBTQ+ Recruitment and Retention Efforts - As of July 2021, the index has data for 435 campuses. Also, the Consortium of Higher Education LGBT Resource Professionals maintains a directory of colleges and universities that have an office dedicated to LGBTQ topics. Employment LGBTQ+ employees experience harassment and discrimination at greater levels than their non-LGBTQ+ colleagues.2 One survey found that 44 percent of LGBTQ adults experienced some form of discrimination on the job because of their sexual orientation.3 In June of 2020 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protects gay, lesbian, and transgender employees from discrimination based on sex.4 Employers can benefit from policies and programs (including state laws) that support LGBTQ+ employees. Protections for LGBTQ+ employees have been found to attract other diverse applicants and fair-minded job seekers. For example, one survey showed that more than 80 percent of respondents, including those who identified as members of LGBTQ+ community and those who identified as allies, were more likely to buy goods and services from a company that outwardly supports the LGBTQ+ community. 72 percent of respondents in the same study reported being more likely to accept a job at a company that outwardly supports LGBTQ+ employees than one that did not or one that took no public stance.5 Outward support for and inclusion of the LGBTQ+ community within an organization may look like: Following inclusivity guidelines created by the United Nations’ Human Rights Commission (UNHCR) standards of corporate conduct; - Writing explicit organization-wide policies related to LGBTQ+ matters such as guidelines to advise managers as they navigate supporting employees who are undergoing a gender transition; - Providing inclusive benefits that cover both same-sex and different-sex partners, transgender-inclusive health plans, and/or additional specialized benefits for LGBTQ+ employees to accommodate undue burden and discrimination experienced elsewhere.6 - When seeking employment, LGBTQ+ youth may likewise consider the policies and practices of an organization, an agency, or a company before pursuing employment there. The Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index provides information on LGBTQ equality at U.S. businesses, which can provide guidance as LGBTQ youth transition into the workforce.7 Resources The Economic Well-Being of Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual Youth Transitioning Out of Foster Care This resource discusses the well-being of LGB youth aging out of foster care and compares data with their heterosexual peers. Data come from a longitudinal study, the Midwest Study of Adult Functioning of Former Foster Youth. LGBT at USDA: The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Special Emphasis Program This website focuses on the USDA’s LGBT Special Emphasis Program. It highlights information for a safe, inclusive workplace environment. References 1 Kosciw et al., 2012; Kim, 2009 2 Movement Advancement Project, 2013; Badgett, Lau, Sears, & Ho, 2007 3 Out & Equal Workplace Summit, 2009 4 U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 2020 5 Arizent, 2021; Coqual, 2021 6 Arizent, 2021; Coqual, 2021 7 Human Rights Campaign, 2012b Other Resources on this Topic Announcements Briefs Collaboration Profiles Feature Articles Publications Resources Technical Assistance Tools & Guides Videos & Podcasts Websites Youth Topics Youth Briefs Research links early leadership with increased self-efficacy and suggests that leadership can help youth to develop decision making and interpersonal skills that support successes in the workforce and adulthood. In addition, young leaders tend to be more involved in their communities, and have lower dropout rates than their peers. Youth leaders also show considerable benefits for their communities, providing valuable insight into the needs and interests of young people Statistics reflecting the number of youth suffering from mental health, substance abuse, and co-occurring disorders highlight the necessity for schools, families, support staff, and communities to work together to develop targeted, coordinated, and comprehensive transition plans for young people with a history of mental health needs and/or substance abuse. Nearly 30,000 youth aged out of foster care in Fiscal Year 2009, which represents nine percent of the young people involved in the foster care system that year. This transition can be challenging for youth, especially youth who have grown up in the child welfare system. Research has demonstrated that as many as one in five children/youth have a diagnosable mental health disorder. Read about how coordination between public service agencies can improve treatment for these youth. Civic engagement has the potential to empower young adults, increase their self-determination, and give them the skills and self-confidence they need to enter the workforce. Read about one youth’s experience in AmeriCorps National Civilian Community Corps (NCCC).