June is LGBT Pride Month Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Pride Month (LGBT Pride Month) is celebrated annually in June to honor the 1969 Stonewall riots, and works to achieve equal justice and equal opportunity for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) Americans. In June of 1969, patrons and supporters of the Stonewall Inn in New York City staged an uprising to resist the police harassment and persecution to which LGBT Americans were commonly subjected. This uprising marks the beginning of a movement to outlaw discriminatory laws and practices against LGBT Americans. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBT Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that LGBTQ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. Federal and local policies and practices are increasingly acknowledging and focusing on LGBTQ youth and numerous national advocacy and other organizations are also giving greater attention to LGBTQ youth in their work. Encouraging greater acceptance and support for all youth, including those who are or are perceived to be LGBTQ, will make communities, schools, and other settings safer, better places for all youth. To get involved: The White House is holding an LGBT Pride Month Champions of Change Video Challenge to explore the stories of unsung heroes and local leaders who are leading our march towards a more perfect union. In early June, you will have a chance to weigh in and help identify finalists that will be featured as Champions of Change at an event at the White House! - Take a look at resources from the Administration on Children and Families’ National Clearinghouse on Youth and Families. These resources are geared at helping youth-serving organizations understand and more effectively support lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning young people: Serving Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning Youth With Open Arms. - Pride events occur throughout the month. Find a LGBT Pride event in your area. - Check out the It Gets Better Project. Take the pledge to speak up against hate and intolerance whenever and wherever you see it. Watch videos from folks who know “It gets better,” or submit a video of your own. - For more information and resources: Presidential Proclamation [NOTE: this is from 2011; 2012 is yet to be released] - In support of the goals of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Pride Month, the National Child Traumatic Stress Network has compiled a list of helpful links for youth, parents and caregivers, mental health and child welfare professionals, and educators. - The White House Office of Public Engagement has launched a new landing page, Winning the Future: President Obama and LGBT Americans. This webpage is designed to keep you updated on issues that affect the LGBT community. - Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration’s Office of Behavioral Health Equity has compiled a number of LGBT-focused efforts and resources. - U.S. Department of Education 2011 LGBT Youth Summit: http://www.ed.gov/news/media-advisories/us-department-education-host-lgbt-youth-summit-washington-dc - Resources and Information on Serving LGBTQ Youth and Families Involved in the Child Welfare System: Please see the Child Welfare Information Gateway at: http://www.childwelfare.gov/systemwide/cultural/families/lgbtq.cfm -