Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources LGBT Youth Resources This CDC website provides resources for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) youth and their friends, educators and school administrators, and parents and family members on how to support LGBT youth around issues such as bullying, sexuality and sexual health, education, homelessness, and more. Parents’ Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and Families Should Know CDC’s DASH developed the factsheet, “Parents’ Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and Families Should Know," which provides information for parents on how they can support and promote healthy outcomes for their LGTBQ teens. Report: Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex The Urban Institute released a report (PDF, 94 pages), supported by OJJDP, on involvement in the juvenile justice, criminal justice, and child welfare systems and youth engaging in survival sex who self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ); young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with woman (YWSW). The report offers practice and policy recommendations to repurpose law enforcement-based responses to youth engaged in survival sex and services to meet their needs without system involvement. Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Report: Health-Related Behaviors among Students This study aims to understand the health-related behaviors that contribute to negative health outcomes among sexual minority youth and how the prevalence of these behaviors compares with that of nonsexual minorities. Data came from the 2015 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, which for the first time included questions about sexual identity and sex of sexual contacts. The report found that sexual minority youth experienced substantially higher levels of physical and sexual violence and bullying, and were at increased risk for suicide. Report: Recommendations of the LGBT Subcommittee: Advancing the Reform Process for LGBQ/GNCT Youth in the Juvenile Justice System This report (PDF, 11 pages) summarizes the recommendations of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Subcommittee of the Federal Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice to OJJDP on strategies to advance juvenile justice reform for lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning/gender nonconforming, transgender (LGBQ/GNCT) youth. The recommendations are grouped into four categories: Policy and program development, - Training and technical assistance, - Data collection and research, and - Federal LGBT juvenile justice coordination. - Sexual Risk Behavior Differences Among Sexual Minority High School Students — United States, 2015 and 2017 This report uses data from the 2015 and 2017 cycles of the national Youth Risk Behavior Survey to examine differences in eight sexual risk behaviors between subgroups of sexual minority youth and nonsexual minority youth, as well as within sexual minority youth.