Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. NCFY Voices: Does It Get Better for LGBTQ Teens? In this podcast, Michelle Birkett, a researcher at Northwestern University's Feinburg School of Medicine, describes a study she co-authored on the mental health and victimization of LBGTQ youth and how it progresses over time. 5 Online Resources to Help Domestic Violence Programs Offer Inclusive Services to LGBTQ People NCFY has compiled a list of resources that can help anti-violence programs provide inclusive services to LGBTQ youth. This information is pertinent to organizations that receive funding authorized through the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, as they are required to provide mainstream services to survivors who identify as LGBTQ. Increasing Visibility of Low-Income LBGTQ Hispanic Families In an effort to help programs and policies better serve low-income Hispanic children and families, the National Research Center on Hispanic Children & Families developed this article, which describes the composition of low-income LGBTQ Hispanic families. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Share with Youth: This Free Life This campaign aims to prevent and reduce tobacco use among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) young adults, ages 18-24, who are occasional smokers. As highlighted in a recent blog post describing the campaign, LGBT young adults in the United States are nearly twice as likely to use tobacco as other young adults. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. Resource: Helping Youth Prevent Suicide Among Their LGBTQ Peers This article highlights free resources educators and youth service providers can use to implement the Trevor Project’s Lifeguard Workshop, a program encouraging young people to be “lifeguards” for one another by having the knowledge to help in a crisis. Professionals can request a free, in-person workshop or use the resources highlighted in the article to create personalized trainings. Report: Health-Related Behaviors among Students This study aims to understand the health-related behaviors that contribute to negative health outcomes among sexual minority youth and how the prevalence of these behaviors compares with that of nonsexual minorities. Data came from the 2015 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, which for the first time included questions about sexual identity and sex of sexual contacts. The report found that sexual minority youth experienced substantially higher levels of physical and sexual violence and bullying, and were at increased risk for suicide. Sexual Risk Behavior Differences Among Sexual Minority High School Students — United States, 2015 and 2017 This report uses data from the 2015 and 2017 cycles of the national Youth Risk Behavior Survey to examine differences in eight sexual risk behaviors between subgroups of sexual minority youth and nonsexual minority youth, as well as within sexual minority youth. Adolescents Living with a Parent Who Drives Under the Influence Are at Increased Risk for Driving Under the Influence Themselves A report from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) shows that 16 and 17 year olds, living with parents who drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol, are far more likely to drive under the influence than adolescents whose parents do not drive under the influence. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations. Driving Among High School Students — United States, 2013 A new study released by the CDC provides information on the driving habits and patterns of high school students in the United States, including variations in these patterns based on students’ race/ethnicity and where they live. This information can help states and communities develop new ways to promote teen driver safety and provide safe transportation options for all teens Injury and Violence Prevention and Control Information from the CDC on the topics of injury and violence prevention, including topic areas, publications, and other resources. New State Fact Sheets on Drunk Driving and Restraint Use The CDC’s Injury Center has released two new fact sheets that provide state-specific data on seat belt use and drunk driving. “Buckle Up: Restraint Use Fact Sheets” provides snapshots of motor vehicle occupant deaths and seat belt use and describes proven strategies to increase the use of appropriate restraints. “Sobering Facts: Drunk Driving State Fact Sheets” provides information on alcohol-involved traffic deaths as well as strategies that can reduce drunk driving. Access state-level data on a variety of topics related to driver safety on the Injury Center’s website. Parents Are the Key to Safe Teen Drivers Parents are the Key is a CDC campaign that provides information and tools to help parents support their teens’ safe driving. The website features many free resources, including a Parent-Teen Driving Agreement (PDF, 2 pages). Protect the Ones You Love: Road Traffic Injuries This CDC initiative was developed to raise parents' awareness about the leading causes of child injury in the United States and how they can be prevented. Tips include: Know the stages - Back seat is safest - Sign a driving agreement - Helmets can help - U.S. Department of Health and Human Services The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves. Getting there Safely—Avoid Driving Disasters This blog post contains practical tips for drivers who may find themselves traveling in hazardous weather conditions, including severe rain, tornado, earthquakes, or extreme heat. The post also includes information about creating an emergency kit that for the car in preparation for an incident on the road. Many New Teen Drivers “Crash” in Simulated Driving Task As highlighted by HHS, a recent study shows that approximately four in 10 newly licensed teen drivers "crashed" in a simulated driving test. The results reflect that teens often have mastery of basic skills, but find more advanced driving behaviors challenging, suggesting that teens need to practice these kinds of skills with a parent or driving instructor before they drive alone. Roadway to Safer Tribal Communities Toolkit American Indians and Alaska Natives have the highest motor vehicle-related death rates of all racial and ethnic groups, with rates two to three times greater than all other Americans. This toolkit, created for tribal governments and local health professionals, provides materials — including fact sheets, posters, and a video — to help prevent crash-related injuries and deaths among members of tribal nations. Report: Drivers Aged 16 or 17 Years Involved in Fatal Night Crashes This study analyzed national and state-level data to determine the proportion of drivers aged 16 or 17 years involved in fatal crashes who crashed at night. The report describes the night driving restriction, estimates how many people drive at night, and describes their involvement in fatal nighttime crashes. Resource: Best Practices Guide for Tribal Motor Vehicle Injury Prevention This resource (PDF, 132 pages) for organizations and American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities features a summary of the burden of motor vehicle crash injury and death among the AI/AN community. It also provides recommended strategies, with examples from Indian Country, to increase seat belt use, increase child safety seat use, and reduce alcohol-impaired driving.