Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Bright Idea: Emergency Shelters Look for Human Trafficking When Youth Walk in the Door This article provides tips for youth workers on recognizing youth who may be survivors of sexual exploitation. The article notes that many youth will seek services for other issues and, if made to feel comfortable, will divulge their experience with trafficking. The article recommends that youth workers have the knowledge to recognize the signs of trafficking, go appropriately off-script in their interactions with youth if they suspect trafficking is taking place, and maintain a non-judgmental stance when speaking with youth to build trust. Community Mapping Connects Youth to Their Neighborhoods This podcast from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth describes the work of a nonprofit organization that uses a tool called community mapping to help young people understand the assets and deficits that exist in their communities Creating a Safe Space for LGBTQ Teens The Family and Youth Services Bureau's Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention Program created “Creating a Safe Space for LGBTQ Teens," a free online course (requires login) designed to inform those who deliver teen pregnancy prevention programming. The course will help professionals understand key terms related to gender and sexual identity, the challenges that LGBTQ youth face and the importance of including them in prevention messages about teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections, and key strategies for creating safe spaces and classrooms for LGBTQ youth. Educating Young Men as a Way to End Commercial Sexual Exploitation This article from the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth features a Q&A with a representative from the Chicago Alliance Against Sexual Exploitation (CAASE) who discusses the organization’s research on the demand for prostitution and how youth-serving professionals can use the curriculum developed by CAASE to encourage young men to take a stand against sexual exploitation. Evidence-based Practice 101 This series of articles from the Department of Health and Human Services, Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB), National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, articulates the FYSB’s position on implementing evidence-based practices in youth programming, provides the perspective of an FYSB grantee on implementing an evidence-based program, and discusses working with researchers to illustrate the effectiveness of programs. Ending Youth Homelessness This website developed by FYSB illustrates how the programs operated through the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act help to meet the needs of homeless youth and young adults and contribute to the goal of ending youth homelessness by 2020. It also provides information on the issue of youth homelessness and ways users can contribute to the efforts to end homelessness among youth. Don't Call Them Dropouts A report from America’s Promise Alliance encourages readers to think differently about youth who have left school, suggesting a change in terminology, from “dropouts” to “nongraduates” or students who have had “interrupted enrollment.” As this article explains, youth voices are featured prominently in the report, which also highlights factors that influence students to leave school and the supports that can help them to return to and remain in school. Everything You Need to Know About Helping Homeless Youth Apply for Medicaid In this article, Graham Bowman, an Equal Justice Works fellow at The Law Project of the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, offers advice on encouraging and helping runaway and homeless youth to apply for Medicaid. Evidence-Based Treatments for Homeless Youth This article features a Q&A with professor and researcher Natasha Slesnick about the work she and her colleagues are doing to understand what evidence-based treatments might be effective in working with homeless youth. Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) FYSB supports the organizations and communities that work every day to reduce the risk of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy and domestic violence. Learn more about FYSB programs. FYSB: New Video Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides news and resources related to issues such as homelessness, adolescent pregnancy, and domestic violence. Watch FYSB's new video “The Family and Youth Services Bureau — Join Us” to learn more about FYSB work and programs. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Five Ways to Improve Youth Health This slideshow presents tips for youth-serving organizations on how they can improve the health of the at-risk youth they work with. Ideas include partnering with local farms to receive fresh vegetables and offering classes for physical and mental health. Five Key Ways the Affordable Care Act Affects Young People This blog post from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth links to multiple resources that can help youth-serving programs understand how the Affordable Care Act (ACA) affects youth, including homeless and runaway youth. The post also provides some of the highlights from a recent webinar that discussed what youth and youth workers need to know about the ACA. Five Ways to Help Youth Stay in School and Get Jobs This slideshow presents ways in which youth workers can support and promote the education and employment of youth. Tips include becoming familiar with education rights, preventing bullying, helping young people explore job interests, and more. Five Groups of Teens Who Need Pregnancy Prevention More Than Some Might Think This slideshow, developed by the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth, highlights five groups of teens that sexual health educators should include in pregnancy prevention efforts. The list includes young men, teen moms, rural youth, LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning) youth, and teens living in areas where pregnancy rates have declined. Five Things to Know About Teen Parents and How to Help Them This article from the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth provides an overview of the information gathered from the Massachusetts Alliance on Teen Pregnancy’s survey of 4,439 pregnant and parenting teens, illustrating the challenges faced by teen parents and the factors that promote their resilience. Guide to Starting a Youth Program Developed by the Department of Health and Human Services' National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth, this guide provides information for adults and teens interested in starting a youth-serving non-profit. The guide walks users through four distinct stages, each including interactive videos and helpful tools. How Can Youth Workers Recognize Teen Dating Abuse? This article provides advice from experts on how youth workers can spot unhealthy teen relationships and how they can help victims. Hotline Numbers Every Youth Should Have The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth (NCFY) published this short list of hotline numbers that every youth should have, especially youth dealing with homelessness. How Are the Lives of LGBTQ Youth Improved by Gay-Straight Alliances? This article, featured by the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, discusses a recent study released in the School Social Work Journal that compared 284 lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning (LGBTQ) youth in schools with gay-straight alliances with LGBTQ students in schools without those alliances to discern whether the presence of such organizations improved outcomes for young people. The study suggests that membership in a gay-straight alliance has some positive effects on LGBTQ youth, but more research is necessary. Information Memorandum: Serving Youth Who Run Away From Foster Care This Information Memorandum provides guidance on services for youth under age 18 who run away from foster care and come in contact with runaway and homeless youth programs. Introduction to Positive Youth Development The National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth has recently updated its two-part, self-paced online training, “Introduction to Positive Youth Development.” The modules focus on explaining the concepts and theories of positive youth development, and how this information can be put into practice. Incorporating Relationship Abuse Prevention into Your Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention Programming In this video, the Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) presents to Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention grantees on incorporating relationship abuse prevention into their programming. FYSB also shares a web-based toolkit available to grantees to incorporate into their programming. Looking Ahead: Five Years to End Youth Homelessness Four youth workers share what they plan to do in their communities over the next five years in order to meet the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness’s goal of ending youth homelessness by 2020.