Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Evidence-Based Treatments for Homeless Youth This article features a Q&A with professor and researcher Natasha Slesnick about the work she and her colleagues are doing to understand what evidence-based treatments might be effective in working with homeless youth. Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) FYSB supports the organizations and communities that work every day to reduce the risk of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy and domestic violence. Learn more about FYSB programs. FYSB: New Video Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides news and resources related to issues such as homelessness, adolescent pregnancy, and domestic violence. Watch FYSB's new video “The Family and Youth Services Bureau — Join Us” to learn more about FYSB work and programs. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Five Ways to Improve Youth Health This slideshow presents tips for youth-serving organizations on how they can improve the health of the at-risk youth they work with. Ideas include partnering with local farms to receive fresh vegetables and offering classes for physical and mental health. Five Key Ways the Affordable Care Act Affects Young People This blog post from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth links to multiple resources that can help youth-serving programs understand how the Affordable Care Act (ACA) affects youth, including homeless and runaway youth. The post also provides some of the highlights from a recent webinar that discussed what youth and youth workers need to know about the ACA. Five Ways to Help Youth Stay in School and Get Jobs This slideshow presents ways in which youth workers can support and promote the education and employment of youth. Tips include becoming familiar with education rights, preventing bullying, helping young people explore job interests, and more. Five Groups of Teens Who Need Pregnancy Prevention More Than Some Might Think This slideshow, developed by the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth, highlights five groups of teens that sexual health educators should include in pregnancy prevention efforts. The list includes young men, teen moms, rural youth, LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning) youth, and teens living in areas where pregnancy rates have declined. Five Things to Know About Teen Parents and How to Help Them This article from the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth provides an overview of the information gathered from the Massachusetts Alliance on Teen Pregnancy’s survey of 4,439 pregnant and parenting teens, illustrating the challenges faced by teen parents and the factors that promote their resilience. Guide to Starting a Youth Program Developed by the Department of Health and Human Services' National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth, this guide provides information for adults and teens interested in starting a youth-serving non-profit. The guide walks users through four distinct stages, each including interactive videos and helpful tools. How Can Youth Workers Recognize Teen Dating Abuse? This article provides advice from experts on how youth workers can spot unhealthy teen relationships and how they can help victims. Hotline Numbers Every Youth Should Have The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth (NCFY) published this short list of hotline numbers that every youth should have, especially youth dealing with homelessness. How Are the Lives of LGBTQ Youth Improved by Gay-Straight Alliances? This article, featured by the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, discusses a recent study released in the School Social Work Journal that compared 284 lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning (LGBTQ) youth in schools with gay-straight alliances with LGBTQ students in schools without those alliances to discern whether the presence of such organizations improved outcomes for young people. The study suggests that membership in a gay-straight alliance has some positive effects on LGBTQ youth, but more research is necessary. Information Memorandum: Serving Youth Who Run Away From Foster Care This Information Memorandum provides guidance on services for youth under age 18 who run away from foster care and come in contact with runaway and homeless youth programs. Introduction to Positive Youth Development The National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth has recently updated its two-part, self-paced online training, “Introduction to Positive Youth Development.” The modules focus on explaining the concepts and theories of positive youth development, and how this information can be put into practice. Incorporating Relationship Abuse Prevention into Your Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention Programming In this video, the Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) presents to Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention grantees on incorporating relationship abuse prevention into their programming. FYSB also shares a web-based toolkit available to grantees to incorporate into their programming. Looking Ahead: Five Years to End Youth Homelessness Four youth workers share what they plan to do in their communities over the next five years in order to meet the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness’s goal of ending youth homelessness by 2020. Learn More About Positive Youth Development Learn more about Positive Youth Development with this resource by RHY. Positive Youth Development (PYD) 101 Online is a series of short courses intended to introduce PYD to new youth work professionals, volunteers, and advocates. Most At Risk: Population-Based Approaches for Helping Trafficking Victims This set of articles explores youth populations who are most prone to trafficking and what youth and family workers can do to help them recover from that trauma. Mental Health: The First Step to Well Being This collection of articles from the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth analyzes some of the most prominent mental health issues facing at-risk youth in order to provide youth workers with insight into the prevention and treatment of mental health challenges. Post-traumatic stress disorder, the risks and uses of psychotropic medications, and postpartum depression in teen mothers are discussed. NCFY Voices: The Youth Dreamers Think Big Two young people from Youth Dreamers share how they raised money to build a safe place for youth in their community to go after school. Youth Dreamers is a youth leadership group in Baltimore, MD. New Online Training: Logic Models and Theories of Change “Logic Models and Theory of Change” is a new, free online course from NCFY that walks users through the basics of each model while presenting examples from the field. This training can help staff working for family and youth-serving agencies make plans to establish a new program or update an existing one. NCFY Voices: From Homelessness to National Spokesman After the death of his mother when he was a teenager, Syncere started living on the streets. He then got involved with the Night Ministry, a Chicago youth program, went back to school, and now works for the organization. In this podcast from the FYSB event "Ending Youth Homelessness: A Call to Action,” Syncere shares his experiences and discusses his dream to open a 24-hour youth resource center. NCFY Voices: Bringing Street Outreach Experience to DC's Point-in-Time Count In this podcast, a street outreach worker in Washington, DC, discusses his experience joining 350 volunteers for the city’s annual count of people experiencing homelessness. He shares what outreach professionals who work with young people bring to this important event. NCFY Library The NCFY Library is a searchable database, curated and managed by a librarian, which contains abstracts, or summaries, of more than 20,000 publications related to FYSB’s programmatic areas of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy prevention, and family violence prevention and services