Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. Report: Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex The Urban Institute released a report (PDF, 94 pages), supported by OJJDP, on involvement in the juvenile justice, criminal justice, and child welfare systems and youth engaging in survival sex who self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ); young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with woman (YWSW). The report offers practice and policy recommendations to repurpose law enforcement-based responses to youth engaged in survival sex and services to meet their needs without system involvement. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. Report: Recommendations of the LGBT Subcommittee: Advancing the Reform Process for LGBQ/GNCT Youth in the Juvenile Justice System This report (PDF, 11 pages) summarizes the recommendations of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Subcommittee of the Federal Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice to OJJDP on strategies to advance juvenile justice reform for lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning/gender nonconforming, transgender (LGBQ/GNCT) youth. The recommendations are grouped into four categories: Policy and program development, - Training and technical assistance, - Data collection and research, and - Federal LGBT juvenile justice coordination. - Comprehensive Community Initiatives Tools for Feds cciToolsforFeds.org provides information to federal staff to help them design, implement and evaluate comprehensive community initiatives. This ToolKit aims to help federal staff align funding, management, evaluation, and technical assistance to ensure that the focus on systems change remains front and center as they partner with communities in the work of building healthy and capable children, youth, and families. Grants 101: A Resource from Department of Justice This resource is particularly useful for new applicants in navigating the challenges of a highly competitive application and grant award process. The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) has posted a number of current solicitations on OJJDP's Funding Opportunities Web page. Additional funding opportunities from other OJP components may be found on OJP's Open Solicitations Web page. Introduction to Community Collaborative Partnerships Introduction to Community Collaborative Partnerships is an online training session from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention's Online University that can help professionals and staff who work in programs for tribal youth learn how to establish and improve collaborative partnerships in native communities that support tribal youth programs. National Juvenile Justice Evaluation Center In conjunction with the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, JRSA began developing the National Juvenile Justice Evaluation Center (NJJEC) in 2010. This project follows an earlier JRSA project funded by OJJDP, which concluded in 2005, called the Juvenile Justice Evaluation Center. The purpose of NJJEC is to improve the evaluation capacity of states, tribes, and local communities and facilitate the use of evidence-based programs and practices in juvenile justice. Performance Measures Resources This is a one-stop resource for applicants and grantees which offers the ability to review the significance of performance measures in light of relevant federal legislation; assist applicants in developing a logic model that sets goals and objectives for their program; helps applicants select appropriate performance measures and identify pertinent data sources for performance reporting; and enables grantees to report their performance measures online. Risk Assessment for Adolescents This paper discusses how risk assessment tools for adolescents are constructed and used, as well as challenges for using them. Resource: Model Programs Implementation Guides (iGuides) These iGuides provide policymakers and practitioners with 10 steps to consider when implementing a program or practice. Organized in to three general categories — Start, Support, and Secure — iGuides offer communities tips and action-oriented recommendations to help identify problems, develop the best solutions, and lay the groundwork for successful implementation.