Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. Resource: Mass Violence and Behavioral Health This bulletin (PDF, 18 pages), developed by SAMHSA’s Disaster Technical Assistance Center, describes how mass violence affects the behavioral health of adult, adolescent, and child survivors or witnesses of a mass violence incident. It illustrates the phases of response experienced by survivors, provides information on immediate and long-term interventions, and addresses the effects of media exposure following a mass violence incident. Public health, behavioral health, and emergency management professionals can use this resource to improve disaster behavioral health preparedness plans. Slide Deck and Webcast: Disaster Anniversaries These resources contain practical guidance for helping survivors cope with disaster anniversaries and promote healing and resilience within disaster-affected communities. Disaster Anniversary Training These training materials help prepare disaster recovery programs to support communities through disaster anniversaries.