Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Connecting At-Risk Youth to Promising Occupations This brief, developed for the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, discusses promising occupations for at-risk youth. The occupations are based on their potential for reasonable wages, the required educational prerequisites, projected growth and demand in the labor market, and potential for individual advancement. Opportunities in the healthcare and construction fields are highlighted, as well as work-based learning and career pathway programs. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Identifying and Serving LGBTQ Youth: Case Studies of Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Grantees This report from the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) highlights the findings from case studies of four agencies receiving grants from the ACF Family and Youth Services Bureau’s Runaway and Homeless Youth Program. It includes information on the collection and use of sexual orientation and gender identity data, needs and capacities among LGBTQ runaway and homeless youth, approaches to serving this population, and gaps in research and services for practitioners and policymakers to consider. LGBT Populations: A Snapshot of the Knowledge Base and Research Needs These chapter briefs summarize the knowledge base and research needs related to low-income, at-risk lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and their interactions with human services. The briefs are separated into three topic areas: Low-income and at-risk LGBT populations - The child welfare system and LGBT youth and LGBT adults - LGBT youth, particularly related to runaway and homeless youth and sexual health - Measles: What Programs Serving Children and Families Should Know In light of the recent outbreak of measles, this resource can help the staff of programs that serve children, youth, and families to prevent the spread of the disease and provide accurate information to families. Meeting the Needs of Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming Youth The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth released a Q&A with Shannon Minter, legal director at the National Center for Lesbian Rights, featuring tips for working specifically with transgender and gender non-conforming youth. Podcast: Teen Pregnancy Prevention for LGBTQ Youth In a podcast featured in the latest update from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, Bryan Samuels, commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families, and Andrew Barnett, executive director of the Sexual Minority Youth Assistance League, discuss the need to include lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth in teen pregnancy prevention efforts. Primary Sources: Learning How Service Providers and Policy Makers Can Help LGBTQ Homeless Youth This article provides information about a research review that aimed to determine directions for research, public policy, and practice related to serving homeless youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning. The article also includes potential implications of the research for policies and practices of youth-serving organizations. Researchers at Harvard Medical School conducted the research review. Quick Health Data Online Quick Health Data Online provides reliable, easily accessible state- and county-level health data for all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories and possessions. Data are available by gender, race, and ethnicity and are organized into 11 main categories, including demographics, mortality, natality, reproductive health, and mental health. Resources for Serving Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides a list of resources for those serving LGBT youth including helpful publications and LGBT-youth focused organizations. Resource Roundup: Helping Youth and Families Get Affordable Care Act Health Coverage NCFY has compiled a list of resources from federal agencies and nonprofit organizations that can help professionals guide youth and families in obtaining affordable health care through Medicaid or the Health Insurance Marketplace. Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Centers This resource provides technical assistance to runaway and homeless youth programs. The Economic Well-Being of LGB Youth Transitioning Out of Foster Care This report describes the characteristics and economic well-being of young people aging out of foster care who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (LGB). Train Juvenile Justice Staff to Educate Youth on Sexual Health Without other trusted adults to guide them, young men in juvenile justice facilities may turn to employees for information about sexual health, a role that these individuals may not be trained to fulfill. To answer this need, the Washington State Department of Health, through the State Personal Responsibility Education Program, provided training to juvenile justice staff to deliver evidence-based sexual health curricula to youth. Voices from the Field: LGBT-Friendly Teen Pregnancy Prevention This podcast by the National Clearinghouse on Youth and Families (NCFY) features program coordinator at the Bristol HUB Youth Center in Vermont, Ryan Krushenick, who leads a popular teen pregnancy prevention curriculum tailored to be welcoming to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth. He talks to NCFY how to practice inclusive teen pregnancy prevention work. Q&A: How Trauma Affects Physical Health This article features a Q&A with Dr. Stacy Drury, of the Tulane University School of Medicine, who co-authored a study on the physical effects of trauma on the health of young survivors. The study looked at the length of young people’s telomeres, which appear at the end of every cell and act as a marker of aging. Drury and her colleagues found that youth with a history of violence in the home and other traumatic experiences had shorter telomeres than their peers. Q&A: How to Help Homeless Youth Quit Smoking This Q&A with Joan Tucker, the senior behavioral scientist and professor at Pardee RAND Graduate School in Santa Monica, California, focuses on Dr. Tucker’s work on smoking among homeless youth and her recommendations for what tailored cessation programs might look like. NCFY Voices: Does It Get Better for LGBTQ Teens? In this podcast, Michelle Birkett, a researcher at Northwestern University's Feinburg School of Medicine, describes a study she co-authored on the mental health and victimization of LBGTQ youth and how it progresses over time. 5 Online Resources to Help Domestic Violence Programs Offer Inclusive Services to LGBTQ People NCFY has compiled a list of resources that can help anti-violence programs provide inclusive services to LGBTQ youth. This information is pertinent to organizations that receive funding authorized through the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, as they are required to provide mainstream services to survivors who identify as LGBTQ. Increasing Visibility of Low-Income LBGTQ Hispanic Families In an effort to help programs and policies better serve low-income Hispanic children and families, the National Research Center on Hispanic Children & Families developed this article, which describes the composition of low-income LGBTQ Hispanic families. Share with Youth: Health Profession Opportunity Grant Spotlight on Kelly Kelly is a young mother who became a Certified Nursing Assistant with the help of the Health Profession Opportunity Grant (HPOG). In this video, she discusses the challenges and rewards of HPOG and her motivation to complete her certification. Find out more about the HPOG program at: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ofa/programs/hpog. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Resource: Apps Help Prevent Teen Pregnancy and Promote Youth Sexual Health This slideshow highlights six free apps that can help youth avoid pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Share with Youth: Apps Promote Youth Sexual Health This slideshow features free apps that can help youth avoid pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. It includes a brief description of each app and a link to where it can be downloaded.