Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Healthy People 2020 Healthy People provides science-based, ten year national objectives for promoting health and preventing disease. LGBT Youth Resources This CDC website provides resources for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) youth and their friends, educators and school administrators, and parents and family members on how to support LGBT youth around issues such as bullying, sexuality and sexual health, education, homelessness, and more. Parents’ Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and Families Should Know CDC’s DASH developed the factsheet, “Parents’ Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and Families Should Know," which provides information for parents on how they can support and promote healthy outcomes for their LGTBQ teens. SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. Report: Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex The Urban Institute released a report (PDF, 94 pages), supported by OJJDP, on involvement in the juvenile justice, criminal justice, and child welfare systems and youth engaging in survival sex who self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning (LGBTQ); young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with woman (YWSW). The report offers practice and policy recommendations to repurpose law enforcement-based responses to youth engaged in survival sex and services to meet their needs without system involvement. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. Report: Health-Related Behaviors among Students This study aims to understand the health-related behaviors that contribute to negative health outcomes among sexual minority youth and how the prevalence of these behaviors compares with that of nonsexual minorities. Data came from the 2015 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, which for the first time included questions about sexual identity and sex of sexual contacts. The report found that sexual minority youth experienced substantially higher levels of physical and sexual violence and bullying, and were at increased risk for suicide. Report: Recommendations of the LGBT Subcommittee: Advancing the Reform Process for LGBQ/GNCT Youth in the Juvenile Justice System This report (PDF, 11 pages) summarizes the recommendations of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Subcommittee of the Federal Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice to OJJDP on strategies to advance juvenile justice reform for lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning/gender nonconforming, transgender (LGBQ/GNCT) youth. The recommendations are grouped into four categories: Policy and program development, - Training and technical assistance, - Data collection and research, and - Federal LGBT juvenile justice coordination. - Sexual Risk Behavior Differences Among Sexual Minority High School Students — United States, 2015 and 2017 This report uses data from the 2015 and 2017 cycles of the national Youth Risk Behavior Survey to examine differences in eight sexual risk behaviors between subgroups of sexual minority youth and nonsexual minority youth, as well as within sexual minority youth.