Federal Resources Community Mapping Connects Youth to Their Neighborhoods This podcast from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth describes the work of a nonprofit organization that uses a tool called community mapping to help young people understand the assets and deficits that exist in their communities Coping with Disasters and Strengthening Systems: A Framework for Child Welfare Agencies This resource was developed by the National Child Welfare Resource Center for Organizational Improvement (NRCOI) a service of the Children's Bureau and provides information for before a disaster occurs, during a disaster, and after a disaster. Creating a Vision for Afterschool Partnerships This tool is intended to help the growing number of new after school partnerships create a shared vision for their work. Children’s Bureau Spotlight Videos The Children’s Bureau has developed a suite of seven new videos that feature Children’s Bureau staff and leadership discussing their work with states, tribes, grantees, and community organizations and sharing insights about what they have learned through this work. Creating a Safe Space for LGBTQ Teens The Family and Youth Services Bureau's Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention Program created “Creating a Safe Space for LGBTQ Teens," a free online course (requires login) designed to inform those who deliver teen pregnancy prevention programming. The course will help professionals understand key terms related to gender and sexual identity, the challenges that LGBTQ youth face and the importance of including them in prevention messages about teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections, and key strategies for creating safe spaces and classrooms for LGBTQ youth. Connecting At-Risk Youth to Promising Occupations This brief, developed for the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, discusses promising occupations for at-risk youth. The occupations are based on their potential for reasonable wages, the required educational prerequisites, projected growth and demand in the labor market, and potential for individual advancement. Opportunities in the healthcare and construction fields are highlighted, as well as work-based learning and career pathway programs. Creating a New Narrative: Collaborative and Effective Evaluation in Tribal Communities This video from the Child Welfare Evaluation Virtual Summit Series introduces a vision for the future of evaluating tribal child welfare and a guide for developing culturally and scientifically rigorous evaluations. Cutting the Red Tape for Foster Youth Success This blog entry discusses the Uninterrupted Scholars Act, a new law that added child welfare professionals to the list of approved people who can access foster youths’ education records and help transfer their credits to new schools. This can help ease the transition to a new school and increase the chances of these young people graduating from high school. Enhancing Cultural Competence in Social Service Agencies: A Promising Approach to Serving Diverse Children and Families This brief from HHS's Office of Planning, Research and Evaluation summarizes the state of the field on cultural competence in social services and provides service providers and administrators with concrete strategies for ongoing self-reflection and development. The brief also includes links and references for additional relevant resources, tools, and information. Ending Youth Homelessness This website developed by FYSB illustrates how the programs operated through the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act help to meet the needs of homeless youth and young adults and contribute to the goal of ending youth homelessness by 2020. It also provides information on the issue of youth homelessness and ways users can contribute to the efforts to end homelessness among youth. Don't Call Them Dropouts A report from America’s Promise Alliance encourages readers to think differently about youth who have left school, suggesting a change in terminology, from “dropouts” to “nongraduates” or students who have had “interrupted enrollment.” As this article explains, youth voices are featured prominently in the report, which also highlights factors that influence students to leave school and the supports that can help them to return to and remain in school. Everything You Need to Know About Helping Homeless Youth Apply for Medicaid In this article, Graham Bowman, an Equal Justice Works fellow at The Law Project of the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, offers advice on encouraging and helping runaway and homeless youth to apply for Medicaid. Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) FYSB supports the organizations and communities that work every day to reduce the risk of youth homelessness, adolescent pregnancy and domestic violence. Learn more about FYSB programs. FYSB: New Video Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides news and resources related to issues such as homelessness, adolescent pregnancy, and domestic violence. Watch FYSB's new video “The Family and Youth Services Bureau — Join Us” to learn more about FYSB work and programs. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Fundraising Solutions for Youth-serving Nonprofits In an interview with the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, Kim Klein, an Oakland, CA fundraising consultant, shares five resolutions youth-serving nonprofits should make in 2012 to help them increase the amount of money they raise from donors. Getting Staff Buy-in for a “Low-Barrier” Approach at a Youth Shelter The Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth is featuring information on its website for individuals who work in youth shelters who want to help other staff get used to a “low-barrier” approach, meaning young people are not turned away because they have been drinking or using drugs. Five Ways to Help Youth Stay in School and Get Jobs This slideshow presents ways in which youth workers can support and promote the education and employment of youth. Tips include becoming familiar with education rights, preventing bullying, helping young people explore job interests, and more. Get Ready for HUD's Point in Time Count of Young People Experiencing Homlessness This article aims to help youth-serving professionals prepare for the Department of Housing and Urban Development's annual point-in-time count, during which estimates are made about the number of homeless youth in the community. Five Groups of Teens Who Need Pregnancy Prevention More Than Some Might Think This slideshow, developed by the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth, highlights five groups of teens that sexual health educators should include in pregnancy prevention efforts. The list includes young men, teen moms, rural youth, LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning) youth, and teens living in areas where pregnancy rates have declined. Framework for Advancing the Well-being and Self-Sufficiency of At-Risk Youth This brief summarizes a research-based framework that can serve as the foundation for efforts to move at-risk youth toward positive social, emotional, and economic functioning in adulthood. Guidance to States and Services on Addressing Human Trafficking of Children and Youth in the United States The Administration on Children, Youth, and Families released, “Guidance to States and Services on Addressing Human Trafficking of Children and Youth in the United States,” which advises runaway and homeless youth programs and child welfare workers on identifying, engaging, and serving victims of human trafficking. Recommendations include using reliable assessment tools that focus on areas affected by trafficking, adapting evidenced-based interventions for this population, keeping facilitaties safe and educating young people on what to do if they are approached, and familiarizing yourself with resources and programs available to trafficking survivors. Human Trafficking and Runaway and Homeless Youth This module was created by the National Human Trafficking Resource Center to help service providers understand how human trafficking affects runaway and homeless youth, identify signs that indicate a youth is a potential victim of human trafficking, and identify resources for your agency. Identifying and Serving LGBTQ Youth: Case Studies of Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Grantees This report from the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) highlights the findings from case studies of four agencies receiving grants from the ACF Family and Youth Services Bureau’s Runaway and Homeless Youth Program. It includes information on the collection and use of sexual orientation and gender identity data, needs and capacities among LGBTQ runaway and homeless youth, approaches to serving this population, and gaps in research and services for practitioners and policymakers to consider. Integrating Evidence-based Practices into CBCAP Programs: A Tool for Critical Discussions The “Discussion Tool” was produced by FRIENDS to help State Lead Agencies work with their funded programs to facilitate appropriate conversations when considering implementing evidence-based or evidence-informed programs and practices.