Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources America's Children: Key National Indicators of Well-Being Youth Indicators is a statistical compilation of data on the distribution of youth, their family structure, economic factors, school and extracurricular activities, health factors, and other elements that constitute the world of young people between the ages of 0-17 years. This report is created and published by Child Stats, a division of the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics. CDC Grand Rounds: Addressing Preparedness Challenges for Children in Public Health Emergencies This article highlights the unique needs of children that must be addressed during public health emergencies and the roles that community-level pediatricians, state and local public health departments, regional coalitions, and the federal government play in addressing these needs. Brief: School-Based Physical Fitness and the Link to Student Academic Outcomes and Improved School Climate This brief (PDF, 10 pages) outlines the growing body of evidence that suggests physical activity and physical education offered during the school day are linked to children’s healthy development and academic achievement, and have the potential to positively impact school climate and conditions for learning in schools. SCOTUS Decision Supports LGBT Behavioral Health This blog post by SAMHSA Administrator Pamela Hyde describes the importance of the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that the Constitution requires LGBT couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live, and marriages performed in one state must be recognized in every state. The post also highlights other steps the federal government has taken this year to improve the health and well-being of LGBT people. Report: Ending Conversion Therapy: Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Youth This report presents research, clinical expertise, and expert consensus on therapeutic practices related to children's and adolescent's sexual orientation and gender identity, and makes the case for eliminating the use of conversion therapy among this population. Resource: LGBTQ Youth: Voices of Trauma, Lives of Promise This video features the voices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth describing their experiences with trauma related to their identities and how mental health professionals have helped them. Report: Comparison of Physical Health Conditions among Adolescents Aged 12 to 17 with and without Major Depressive Episode This report examines the association between major depressive episode (MDE), self-rated overall health, and selected health conditions (including asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, obesity, and diabetes) among adolescents in the U.S. The results show worse overall health ratings and a greater likelihood of asthma, bronchitis, and pneumonia among adolescents with past year MDE, compared with adolescents without past year MDE. These results were similar by age, gender, race/ethnicity, and poverty status.