Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Brief: the Needs of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Youth in Child Welfare Settings A recent brief from the Permanency Innovations Initiative highlights how research is contributing to a better understanding of the needs of LGBTQ youth in child welfare settings. The brief presents findings from qualitative interviews conducted with youth participating in the Recognize, Intervene, Support, and Empower (RISE) project, funded through a grant from the Children’s Bureau to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Resource: Helping Youth Prevent Suicide Among Their LGBTQ Peers This article highlights free resources educators and youth service providers can use to implement the Trevor Project’s Lifeguard Workshop, a program encouraging young people to be “lifeguards” for one another by having the knowledge to help in a crisis. Professionals can request a free, in-person workshop or use the resources highlighted in the article to create personalized trainings. Preventing and Reducing Teen Tobacco Use OAH has updated its information on teen tobacco use to include new data and resources, including information about e-cigarettes. This page provides information on: The health impact of teen tobacco use - Trends in use - Risk and protective factors that impact a teen’s likelihood of starting or stopping smoking - Federal, state, and community strategies and approaches to preventing and reducing teen tobacco use - Tips for parents on communicating with their teen about smoking - Additional resources on adolescent tobacco use and services to help users quit - Facing Addiction in America: The Surgeon General’s Spotlight on Opioids This report provides the latest data on the prevalence of substance use, opioid misuse, opioid use disorders, opioid overdoses, and related harms. It also addresses prevention, treatment, and management of opioid use disorders and the progress to address the opioid epidemic.