Breadcrumb Federal Resources - Federal Resources Bright Idea: A Free Teen Clinic Reduces Barriers to Health Care This article from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth highlights the work of Tulane’s Drop-In Clinic, which provides free medical care to teens in New Orleans. It shares some of the best practices that have helped the clinic successfully reduce barriers and connect youth to care. Four Tips for Serving LGBTQ Young People in Rural Communities This blog post addresses the unique challenges of serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth in rural places. Written by the executive director of Tumbleweed Runaway Program in Billings, MT, it also suggests how youth-serving professionals in rural areas can make their services and communities welcoming to all young people. Five Ways to Improve Youth Health This slideshow presents tips for youth-serving organizations on how they can improve the health of the at-risk youth they work with. Ideas include partnering with local farms to receive fresh vegetables and offering classes for physical and mental health. Five Key Ways the Affordable Care Act Affects Young People This blog post from the National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth links to multiple resources that can help youth-serving programs understand how the Affordable Care Act (ACA) affects youth, including homeless and runaway youth. The post also provides some of the highlights from a recent webinar that discussed what youth and youth workers need to know about the ACA. How Are the Lives of LGBTQ Youth Improved by Gay-Straight Alliances? This article, featured by the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, discusses a recent study released in the School Social Work Journal that compared 284 lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning (LGBTQ) youth in schools with gay-straight alliances with LGBTQ students in schools without those alliances to discern whether the presence of such organizations improved outcomes for young people. The study suggests that membership in a gay-straight alliance has some positive effects on LGBTQ youth, but more research is necessary. Online Sexual Health Resources The Department of Health and Human Services’ National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth released this list of recommended resources on sexually transmitted diseases, including information geared specifically to teens and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth. Q&A: Amy Lin of Young Invincibles on Helping Young People Find Health Insurance This interview features Amy Lin of the health advocacy group Young Invincibles discussing her organization’s work to encourage young people to sign up for health insurance through the Health Insurance Marketplace. Amy also discusses the challenges that young people, including those who are homeless or teen parents, face in accessing healthcare and how youth-serving professionals can help them overcome these obstacles. Primary Sources: Learning How Service Providers and Policy Makers Can Help LGBTQ Homeless Youth This article provides information about a research review that aimed to determine directions for research, public policy, and practice related to serving homeless youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning. The article also includes potential implications of the research for policies and practices of youth-serving organizations. Researchers at Harvard Medical School conducted the research review. Q&A: Meeting the Needs of Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming Youth The National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth published this Q&A with Shannon Minter, legal director at the National Center for Lesbian Rights, featuring tips for working specifically with transgender and gender non-conforming youth. Resources for Serving Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) provides a list of resources for those serving LGBT youth including helpful publications and LGBT-youth focused organizations. Resource Roundup: Helping Youth and Families Get Affordable Care Act Health Coverage NCFY has compiled a list of resources from federal agencies and nonprofit organizations that can help professionals guide youth and families in obtaining affordable health care through Medicaid or the Health Insurance Marketplace. The Equal Access to Housing Rule and Youth This Q&A from the Department of Health and Human Services explains how the federal rule, “Equal Access to Housing in HUD Programs Regardless of Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity,” will benefit youth. Train Juvenile Justice Staff to Educate Youth on Sexual Health Without other trusted adults to guide them, young men in juvenile justice facilities may turn to employees for information about sexual health, a role that these individuals may not be trained to fulfill. To answer this need, the Washington State Department of Health, through the State Personal Responsibility Education Program, provided training to juvenile justice staff to deliver evidence-based sexual health curricula to youth. Voices from the Field: LGBT-Friendly Teen Pregnancy Prevention This podcast by the National Clearinghouse on Youth and Families (NCFY) features program coordinator at the Bristol HUB Youth Center in Vermont, Ryan Krushenick, who leads a popular teen pregnancy prevention curriculum tailored to be welcoming to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth. He talks to NCFY how to practice inclusive teen pregnancy prevention work. What Makes Homeless Youth More Likely to Get STIs? More Likely to Get Tested? This article from the National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth provides an overview of recent research on the factors that influence sexually transmitted (STI) infection rates among homeless youth. The article also presents the factors that influence the likelihood these youth will get tested and offers suggestions for potentially effective prevention and intervention efforts to reduce risky sexual behaviors and promote STI testing. Q&A: How to Help Homeless Youth Quit Smoking This Q&A with Joan Tucker, the senior behavioral scientist and professor at Pardee RAND Graduate School in Santa Monica, California, focuses on Dr. Tucker’s work on smoking among homeless youth and her recommendations for what tailored cessation programs might look like. NCFY Voices: Does It Get Better for LGBTQ Teens? In this podcast, Michelle Birkett, a researcher at Northwestern University's Feinburg School of Medicine, describes a study she co-authored on the mental health and victimization of LBGTQ youth and how it progresses over time. 5 Online Resources to Help Domestic Violence Programs Offer Inclusive Services to LGBTQ People NCFY has compiled a list of resources that can help anti-violence programs provide inclusive services to LGBTQ youth. This information is pertinent to organizations that receive funding authorized through the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, as they are required to provide mainstream services to survivors who identify as LGBTQ. Research: Does Sexual Orientation Affect Teen Pregnancy Risk? This article describes a study that used data from the 2005, 2007, and 2009 New York City Youth Risk Behavior Surveys to understand how sexual orientation affects high-school students' risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant. Results show that a young person’s sexual orientation and the gender of their sexual partners was strongly linked with risk of getting pregnant or getting someone pregnant, suggesting that adolescent pregnancy prevention efforts focused exclusively on heterosexual young people may be too narrow. Resource: Apps Help Prevent Teen Pregnancy and Promote Youth Sexual Health This slideshow highlights six free apps that can help youth avoid pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Share with Youth: Apps Promote Youth Sexual Health This slideshow features free apps that can help youth avoid pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. It includes a brief description of each app and a link to where it can be downloaded. Resource: How Does Talking to Extended Family Influence Teens' Decisions About Sex? This article highlights a recent study which examined why teens talk with extended family members about sex and what they discuss. The results indicate that almost 60% of teens in the study talked with extended family members about sex, and youth who said they talked exclusively to extended family members about sex were more than twice as likely to have had sex. Resource: Helping Youth Prevent Suicide Among Their LGBTQ Peers This article highlights free resources educators and youth service providers can use to implement the Trevor Project’s Lifeguard Workshop, a program encouraging young people to be “lifeguards” for one another by having the knowledge to help in a crisis. Professionals can request a free, in-person workshop or use the resources highlighted in the article to create personalized trainings. CDC Grand Rounds: Addressing Preparedness Challenges for Children in Public Health Emergencies This article highlights the unique needs of children that must be addressed during public health emergencies and the roles that community-level pediatricians, state and local public health departments, regional coalitions, and the federal government play in addressing these needs. Brief: School-Based Physical Fitness and the Link to Student Academic Outcomes and Improved School Climate This brief (PDF, 10 pages) outlines the growing body of evidence that suggests physical activity and physical education offered during the school day are linked to children’s healthy development and academic achievement, and have the potential to positively impact school climate and conditions for learning in schools.