USDA is committed to equity in the delivery of programs and has resources to help farmers and ranchers throughout the country regardless of their race, gender, or sexual orientation. No matter the size of your operation or the crop being produced, our programs can help you start, grow, and protect your operation. Start by learning how programs can serve you, reading about how other producers have used USDA programs for their operations, and getting connected to local USDA staff who can support you. Programs and Services Every agricultural operation is different — farm or ranch, rural or urban, small or big, and everywhere in between. That’s why USDA offers a wide variety of programs and services, such as loans, conservation assistance, disaster assistance, and safety net programs. Farmers.gov has a wealth of information on all of our programs. To learn more or to apply for a program, contact your local USDA Service Center, and your local Farm Service Agency or Natural Resources Conservation Service team member can assist. Crop insurance is sold and delivered solely through private crop insurance agents. A list of crop insurance agents is available at all USDA Service Centers and online at the Risk Management Agency’s Agent Locator. If you have difficulty finding an agent, contact your RMA Regional Office. If you inherited land without a clear title or documented legal ownership, learn more about how USDA can help Heirs’ Property Landowners establish a farm number to gain access to a variety of programs and services. Underlined Header Service Centers Your first step should be to contact your USDA Service Center and make an appointment. Be sure to ask what documents you’ll need such as the Customer Data Worksheet (AD-2047) and Socially Disadvantaged, Limited Resource and Beginning Farmer or Rancher Certification Form (CCC-860) to update your contact and demographic information and status as a limited resource, military veteran, and/or beginning farmer. Also consider: what is your vision for your land and farm? What are your challenges? Prior to your visit you can also use USDA’s self-determination tool to see if you’re qualify for limited resource special provisions. Underlined Header Outreach In addition to USDA team members at local Service Centers and crop insurance agents, USDA has outreach specialists well versed in programs and services administered by FSA, NRCS, and RMA. Additionally, USDA has beginning farmer and rancher coordinators available to producers new to farming, and RMA has specialty crop liaisons for specialty crop growers with insurance questions. Underlined Header Self-Service Options Learn how to sign up for a farmers.gov account. You can view loan information and manage conservation business online here. We also have a number of tools to help you: find the right loan; learn about recovery options after natural disasters; or discover conservation options. Get Involved USDA encourages farmers to participate in leadership opportunities including County Office Committees and Soil and Water Conservation Districts, which help with delivery of Farm Service Agency and Natural Resources Conservation Service programs, research and promotion programs, and federal advisory committees. Additional Resources Stay connected with USDA for updates - USDA CARES Partner Portal – Resources for underserved farmers, ranchers, and landowners and partners who work with them - Farm Service Agency’s Outreach and Education webpage - Natural Resources Conservation Service’s Outreach and Partnerships webpage - Women in Agriculture - Beginning Farmers and Ranchers - New Farmer Training - Read About Other Farmers Find Your Local Service Center USDA Service Centers are locations where you can connect with Farm Service Agency, Natural Resources Conservation Service, or Rural Development employees for your business needs. Enter your state and county below to ﬁnd your local service center and agency offices. If this locator does not work in your browser, please visit offices.usda.gov. Learn more about our Urban Service Centers. Visit the Risk Management Agency website to ﬁnd a regional or compliance office or to ﬁnd an insurance agent near you.