U.S. Department of Education: Supporting LGBTQI+ Youth and Families in School – english, versión en español Includes examples of policies and practice that schools and districts can consider developing to support LGBTQI+ students and families. U.S. Department of Education Toolkit: Creating Inclusive and Nondiscriminatory School Environments for LGBTQI+ Students This toolkit offers policies and strategies that schools and school districts can implement to create supportive, nondiscriminatory environments for LGBTQI+ students and families; examples of Federal resources that can be leveraged to implement the strategies listed; and supplemental resources to help readers access additional research and best practices. LGBTQ Inclusivity in Schools: A Self-Assessment Tool Provides a self-assessment and planning tool to help school staff understand their current and potential LGBTQ inclusive policies and practices. Moving Beyond Change Efforts: Evidence and Action to Support and Affirm LGBTQI+ Youth Shares a comprehensive overview of current knowledge on the health, well-being, and needs of LGBTQI+ youth. Also describes the influences of school experiences and environments on the health and well-being of LGBTQI+ youth and shares school-based practices and programs that create safe and supportive environments. Q&A Resource on Student-Led Groups to Support LGBTQI+ Students and Allies english, versión en español Provides information about the rights students have to form and participate in Gender and Sexuality Alliances (GSAs) and other similar groups. Supporting LGBTQIA+ Communities in School Features a three-part series of guides focused on supporting LGBTQIA+ communities in school. Each guide identifies strategies, resources, and action items that support relationship-building and enhance advocacy efforts with LGBTQIA+ students, staff, and communities. 2024 U.S. National Survey on the Mental Health of LGBTQ+ Young People Shares recent data on the experiences of young people ages 13 to 24 across the U.S. and provides data-driven ways to support LGBTQ+ young people. Creating Safer Spaces in Schools for LGBTQ Young People Shares practical tips and tools for creating inclusive and affirming spaces for LGBTQ+ young people in schools. Developing LGBTQ-Inclusive Classroom Resources Includes best practices and practical strategies for creating learning environments that are safer and inclusive for LGBTQ students. Promoting Resiliency for Gender Diverse and Sexual Minority Students in Schools Shares best practices for educators, school counselors, administrators and personnel, based on research on the needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, gender diverse, questioning, and intersex students. Pronouns & Inclusive Language Provides guidance to the user on properly using pronouns. Ready, Set, Respect!: Elementary Toolkit Provides tools to support elementary educators with creating inclusive environments. The lessons focus on name-calling, bullying and bias, LGBT-inclusive family diversity, gender diversity and gender roles. Resources for Gender and LGBTQ+ Inclusive Schools Offers educators with tools and training they need to embrace teachable moments, interrupt bias-based bullying, support transgender and non-binary students, and be prepared to answer important questions about LGBTQ+ and gender topics with students and families. Q&A For Helping Educators and School Providers To Provide Guidance & Support For Parents & Caregivers of LGBTQ Students Includes background information for helping school professionals to engage and provide support for parents and caregivers with LGBTQ students. The RESPECT Workshop: Preventing Health Risks and Promoting Healthy Outcomes Among Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning Students Offers self-paced online professional development curriculum for staff addressing the needs of LGBTQ youth. Trauma-Informed & Affirming Checklist for Practice with LGBTQ+ Children, Youth & Families Provides a checklist with action steps for creating LGBTQ affirming spaces. White House Toolkit on Transgender Equality Describes challenges that many transgender students face at schools and institutions of higher education, offers examples of policies and practices that create safe and supportive learning environments for transgender students, and provides details on how the U.S. Department of Education supports transgender students who experience discrimination. U.S. Department of Education: Supporting Transgender Youth In School Provides guidance on how schools can support transgender students. Schools in Transition: A Guide for Supporting Transgender Students in K-12 Schools Provides school administrations, teachers, and parents with information about how to provide safe and supportive environments for all transgender students. Supporting Intersex Students Provides students, families, and educators with resources to support intersex students. What We Wish Our Teachers Knew This brochure, written by intersex youth, shares information for educators on the experiences of intersex students and how to best support them. Advocating for LGBTQ Students With Disabilities Provides educators and parents an overview of LGBTQ students with disabilities, as well as actionable recommendations on how to best support them. It includes a blueprint for successfully developing an Individualized Education Program (IEP) for special services or a 504 plan for academic accommodations for LGBTQ students with disabilities. Supporting LGBTQ+ Young People with Disabilities Includes guidance on how to best support LGBTQ+ young people with disabilities and better understand the things that impact them. Recognizing Black LGBTQ Students in Schools Describes issues that Black LGBTQ students experience and offers recommendations for school staff to create supportive and inclusive learning environments. Coming Out: Living Authentically as LGBTQ Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Shares context on common experiences LGBTQI Asian and Pacific Islander Americans face. Erasure and Resilience: The Experiences of LGBTQ Students of Color A collection of research reports that explore the experiences of Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI), Black, Latinx, and Native and Indigenous LGBTQ youth. The Experiences of MENA LGBTQ Students in U.S. Secondary Schools Describes how Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) LGBTQ students experience school, including their feelings of safety; hearing biased remarks and experience with victimization based on personal characteristics; experiences with school discipline; and access to and benefit of school supports. Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ+ Youth Resources Offers a compendium of resources to support Native LGBTQ+ and Two-Spirited Youth. FACT SHEET: Biden-Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Protect LGBTQI+ Communities Shares recent Federal agency actions that support and protect LGBTQIA+ communities, including LGBTQIA+ students and youth. Resources for LGBTQI+ Students Provides a list of resources that may be of interest to LGBTQI+ student and allies, including information for filing a complaint with the Office for Civil Rights. FACT SHEET: U.S. Department of Education's 2024 Title IX Final Rule Overview Provides and overview of the updated Title IX regulations, which strengthen vital protections for students and provides clear rules to help school meet their Title IX obligation to eliminate sex discrimination in their education programs and activities. Resource for Drafting Nondiscrimination Policies, Notices of Nondiscrimination, and Grievance Procedures under 2024 Amendments to the U.S. Department of Education’s Title IX Regulations Offers sample text to help recipients of U.S. Department of Education (Department) funds to draft policies that comply with the 2024 amendments to the Department's regulations for implementing Title IX. Confronting Anti-LGBTQI+ Harassment in Schools: A Resource for Students and Families Provides examples of the kinds of incidents the Educational Opportunities Section of the Civil Rights Division (CRT) at the U.S. Department of Justice and the Office of Civil Right (OCR) at the U.S. Department of Education can investigate as well as actions to take if a student has been treated unfairly because of sexual orientation or gender identity. Pursuant to a Federal court order, the Departments have been preliminarily “enjoined and restrained from implementing” this document against the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, South Carolina, South Dakota, and West Virginia. See State of Tenn., et al. v. U.S. Dep’t of Educ., No. 3:21-cv-308 (E.D. Tenn.) (July 15, 2022). LGBTQI+ Youth Identifies practices for creating a safe environment for LGBTQI+ youth and how to file a complaint if a student believes they have faced discrimination at school based on sex, sexual orientation, gender identify, because they do not conform to sex stereotypes, or for another reason. Community Stakeholder Support: Disrupting Anti-Blackness and Homophobia in Schools Presents a call to action for school community stakeholders to collaborate with educators to increase policies and practices that center the lived experiences of students who hold the intersectional identities of being both Black and a member of the LGBTQ community. The resource explains how anti-blackness and homophobia show up in schools and offers steps for creating supportive and affirming environments for students who identify as Black and queer. Don’t Say Gay Policies in Schools: A Choose Your Own Equitable Adventure Explores different ways educators can navigate teaching in States where policies restrict discussion of non-heteronormative family structures. The resource presents a scenario; shares potential responses; and provides insight on how each response may impact students, curriculum, and overall classroom inclusivity. Transgender Awareness in Sports: A Choose Your Own Equitable Adventure This resource explores the different ways in which athletic coaches may respond to negative pushback about transgender students' participation in school sports, and the intents and impacts different responses may elicit. Multiple resources are embedded to assist in navigating these types of conversations and toward cultivating critical consciousness and inclusivity in school sports. Welcoming Schools: Bullying Resources Provides tools, lesson plans, booklists, tipsheets, and additional resources to address bias-based bullying and create LGBTQ+ inclusive environments.