Outlines how the Educational Opportunities Section of the Civil Rights Division (CRT) and the Office for Civil Rights (OCR) can help enforce federal laws that protect students from discrimination and provide information to assist schools in meeting their legal obligations. Honors member institutions for excellence and innovation in several major areas of campus life and leadership that are mission focused. Highlights innovative persistence and developmental education practices initiated at Cleveland State University and Western Kentucky University that are making an impact on graduation rates. Provides tips and resources for communities and stakeholders to prepare for natural disasters and emergencies, as well as ways to get involved. Includes links to help community members take action, be counted, and spread the word. Describes the difficulties that first-generation college students face in applying to colleges and universities as well as finishing their higher education. The report covers financial challenges, racial disparities, and challenges with familial support. Demonstrates the many ways Ontarioâs universities, students, faculty and staff are improving their communities through partnerships that spark service learning or community-based opportunities that enrich the learning experience and also improve lives. This report also touches on the economic impact of universities â locally, provincially and nationally. Considers the degree to which events that intensify partying increase sexual assault. Estimates are based on panel data from campus and local law-enforcement agencies and an identification strategy that exploits plausibly random variation in the timing of Division 1 football games. The estimates indicate that these events increase daily reports of rape with 17-24 year old victims by 28 percent. Provides analysis of benefits and challenges for improving the monitoring, prevention, and treatment of alcohol use disorder. This report discusses how the latest devices generate significant amounts of data, requiring researchers and clinicians to develop new techniques for analyzing and efficiently using what they collect. Serves as a website for disseminating the latest resources and information on policies and actions related to New York's "Enough is Enough" legislation to combat sexual assault on college and university campuses statewide. Presents a comprehensive overview of issues facing LGBTQ students in higher education in the US and those seeking to âqueer the academyâ through incorporating LGBTQ content into curricula. It highlights unanticipated problems such as a closeted gay man being harassed by those who are more âoutâ, and faculty and staff telling students not to list a certificate in LGBTQ studies on a resume.