LINCS Events for the week of 11/15/2021 Live Session: Integrated Education & Training In Corrections Description: Integrated Education & Training (IET) programs provide tools that help learners contextualize the journey from the classroom to the workroom. Join us to explore the benefits and basics of launching an IET program in correctional and reentry settings. Date/Time: Tuesday, November 16, 2021, 1:00 to 2:00pm ET (live session) LINCS Community Group: Correctional and Reentry Education Online registration is required to participate in the LINCS Event for Integrated Education & Training In Corrections. Hosted Discussion: LGBTQ+ and Disability: Working with Persons with Intersecting Identities Description: Join the LINCS Disabilities and Equitable Outcomes community for a conversation on unpacking LGBTQ+ concepts and identities to help increase educators' understanding and comfort in using appropriate language with learners with intersecting (LGBTQ+disability) identities. Date/Time: Tuesday, November 16 - 17, 2021 (asynchronous discussion) LINCS Community Group: Disabilities and Equitable Outcomes A LINCS account is required to participate in the LINCS discussion, LGBTQ+ and Disability: Working with Persons with Intersecting Identities. Hosted Discussion: Developing Strategies to Support Single Mothers Description: How do we create an inclusive and equitable environment where single mothers can succeed in their college aspirations? Join Sandy Goodman, Director of the National College Transitions Network (NCTN) at World Education, to discover promising practices and early lessons from the NCTN‘s College Success for Single Mothers project. Date/Time: Tuesday, November 16, 2021 (asynchronous discussion) LINCS Community Group: Program Management A LINCS account is required to participate in the LINCS discussion, Developing Strategies to Support Single Mothers. Live Session: Technology Tools for History and/or Social Studies Description: Do you struggle with integrating technology into your social studies and history lessons? Join us to learn from Susan Giuliano about how to use technology resources and tools to enhance and expand approaches to social studies and history instruction. Date/Time: Wednesday, November 17, 2021, 2:00 to 3:00pm ET (live session) LINCS Community Group: Integrating Technology Online registration is required to participate in the LINCS Event for Technology Tools for History and/or Social Studies Live Session: Coffee Break: Further Developing a Mathematical Identity Description: Want to help further your students' development of their mathematical identity? Join the Math and Numeracy Coffee Break as we explore ways to promote diverse, equitable, and inclusive environments for our math learners to further develop their identity as math producers. Date/Time: Thursday, November 18, 2021, 3:00 to 4:00pm ET (live session) LINCS Community Group: Math and Numeracy Online registration is required to participate in the LINCS Event for Coffee Break: Further Developing a Mathematical Identity