Attention: State and District Leaders, School Administrators, Educators, Student Support Personnel, Family & Community Engagement Specialists, Parents, and Education Stakeholders The U.S. Department of Education is hosting a webinar series to address hot topics that are on the top of the educators’ minds. After sharing federal updates, the series features lessons learned and best practices from faculty, staff, schools, districts, institutions of higher education, and other places of educational instruction. It also shares a variety of useful resources. On behalf of the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Office of Safe and Supportive Schools and the Office for Civil Rights, the National Center on Safe Supportive Learning Environments (NCSSLE) invites you to join the next Lessons from the Field webinar, Supporting Transgender & Nonbinary Students in K-12 Schools. Date: Wednesday, April 13, 2022 Time: 3:00 – 4:15 pm ET Please join the U.S. Department of Education and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for this webinar featuring educators and experts who discussed challenges faced by many transgender and nonbinary students and offer actionable strategies for providing support. Speakers/Panelists - Sam Ames, Director, Advocacy and Government Affairs, Trevor Project - Amy Cannava, High School Psychologist, Arlington County Schools (Virginia) - Rae Garrison, Principal, West Jordan Middle School (Utah) - Sam Long, High School Science Teacher, Denver South High School (Colorado) - Dr. Catherine Rasberry, Acting Chief, Research Application and Evaluation Branch, Division of Adolescent and School Health, CDC - Christian Rhodes, Senior Advisor, Office of the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education - Laura Ross, Middle School Counselor, Forks Middle School (Georgia) - Melanie Willingham-Jaggers, Executive Director, GLSEN Webinar Materials Related Documents U.S. Department of Education Resources - Confronting Anti-LGBTQI+ Harassment in Schools (June 2021) - Federal Government Back-to-School Address for Transgender Students (August 2021) - U.S. Department of Education Supporting Transgender Youth in School (June 2021) - Resources for LGBTQI+ Students CDC Resources - Creating Safe Schools for LGBTQ+ Youth - Resilience and Transgender Youth - Safe and Supportive Environments - Transgender Identity and Experiences of Violence Victimization, Substance Use, Suicide Risk, and Sexual Risk Behaviors Among High School Students — 19 States and Large Urban School Districts, 2017 | MMWR - Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS)| Data | Adolescent and School Health External Stakeholder Resources - The Trevor Project Website - 2021 National Survey on LGBTQ Youth Mental Health: Supporting Trans + Nonbinary Youth section (The Trevor Project) - A Guide to Being an Ally to Transgender and Nonbinary Youth (The Trevor Project) - GLSEN Website - Improving School Climate for Transgender and Nonbinary Youth (GLSEN) - Model Local Education Agency Policy on Transgender and Nonbinary Students (GLSEN) - Inclusive Curricular Standards (GLSEN) - State Education Agency Recommendations (GLSEN) - Pronoun guide for Educators (GLSEN) - States Use of the Every Student Succeeds Act to Advance LGBTQ+ Equity (GLSEN) - LGBTQ Youth (NASSP) - Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, Intersex, and Two Spirit (LGBTQI2-S) Committee (NASSP) - NASSP Position Statement regarding Transgender Students - American School Counselor Association's position statement regarding The School Counselor and LGBTQ Youth - LGBT Youth Family Acceptance Project - Gender-Inclusive Biology Language Guide Please contact NCSSLE if you have any questions. We look forward to sharing this information with you and hearing about the important work you are doing in your schools, communities, and states to meet the social, emotional, and behavioral needs of students and staff. More on the Lessons from the Field Webinar Series To access archived materials from previous webinars and to find out what is coming next, go here.