DOE Takes Pride in Progress During Pride Month, the U.S. Department of Energy talked to our colleagues about what Pride Month means to them, how they celebrate Pride Month, and what’s on the horizon for our agency when it comes to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Watch the video below to hear their thoughts. Read the full article>> Lab Raises the Progress Pride Flag – June 2021 This June, for the first time in the Department of Energy’s (DOE) history, pride flags were raised at headquarters in Washington, DC and Germantown, MD. In a fitting moment of solidarity and allyship, the Lab also raised the Progress Pride Flag, the same one flown by DOE, high upon the flagpoles outside of Building 65. […] Pride Banner Raising Virtual Ceremony – 2021 During this year’s banner-raising virtual ceremony, Chief Diversity Officer Lady Idos noted: “This year’s theme for San Francisco Pride is ‘All in this Together.’ Given all of the challenges that we’ve been through in the past year, as a nation and a global community, the theme of unity and solidarity is appropriate. ‘All in this […] Understanding the Past and Present: Pride Flag and Banner The Pride banner at the Lab has a long history, going back to 1999 and the start of the Lambda Alliance at the Lab. Several times the banner was removed by unknown persons, but when that happened, Lab leadership stepped up. Lambda Alliance first formed in October 2013 as an employee resource group (ERG) to […] Government Agencies recognize LGBTQ+ employees during Pride Month Government Executive (Buble) reported that since Pride Month started on Tuesday, “many federal agencies have been taking the opportunity to recognize their LGBTQ+ employees and share how they are advancing equity in their respective missions.” According to the article, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm tweeted on Wednesday that for “the first time ever the department […] Lambda Banner Raising Heralds Beginning of Pride Month The Lambda Alliance Banner was raised on June 1 at Blackberry Gate, heralding the beginning of Pride Month. Hear from Lady Idos, Berkeley Lab’s Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer, about this year’s theme “All In This Together.” Lambda Alliance presents Pride events 2021 Dear Lambda Alliance members, allies, and enthusiasts, Next week marks the start of Pride, a month in which we celebrate Sexual orientation & Gender Minority (SGM) culture at home and in the workplace! Fostering unity is a big part of any Pride month and this year SF Pride’s theme is “All in this together”. So […] Remember Harvey Milk Day – movie screening May 21, 2021 Start your weekend early (or listen-in whilst you finish up for the week!) with the movie: Milk. The 2008 American biographical film is based on the life of gay rights activist and politician Harvey Milk, who was the first openly gay person to be elected to public office in California, as a member of the […] May 24 is Pan Awareness Day Pansexual and Panromantic Awareness & Visibility Day, or Pan Awareness Day, is dedicated to celebrating the pansexual and panromantic community. Consider taking a moment to learn about the usage of the term pansexual and its rising popularity. Lambda Alliance Poster Session – June 3, 2021 This virtual poster session is intended as an educational experience for both presenters and attendees, as well as a celebration of Pride. The event will be hosted and organized by Berkeley Lab Lambda Alliance Employee Resource Group (ERG) and will be focused on experiences of the Sexual-orientation and Gender Minority (SGM) community and other minorities […]