Film Screening & Director’s Discussion: Acuitzeramo – June 28, 2022 In celebration of Pride Month, the Latin American and Native American (LANA) employee resource group, in partnership with Lambda ERG, invites everyone to a virtual screening of the award-winning short film “Acuitzeramo” followed by a discussion and Q&A with the film’s director Miguel Angel Caballero and actors Luis Antonio Aldana and Sal Lopez. The film […] October 11: National Coming Out Day – 2021 Celebrate National Coming Out Day! Participating in allyship creates a safer and more welcoming environment for your SGM colleagues. Redeem the Lambda Alliance ERG Badge and give an ally a shout out using extra points this week in Bucketlist. Visit the Lambda Alliance website for more ideas. Lab Leads Transgender-inclusive Name Change Initiative – October 2021 In a sea change for scientific publishing, a project led by Berkeley Lab, in partnership with other leading institutions, has paved the way for researchers who change their names to retain recognition of their previously published work. The first-of-its-kind initiative launched this summer with all 17 national labs on board and 21 prominent publishing organizations, […] Pride Committee Recognized in Physics Society The American Physical Society Division of Plasma Physics Pride Committee is the first affinity group within APS focused on supporting the LGBT+ community and is working towards a scientific community supportive of scientists in the gender and sexual orientation minority communities. Read more. Lab Leads Transgender-Inclusive Name-Change Partnership Berkeley Lab is coordinating a partnership among the 17 national laboratories and prominent academic publishers to support name change requests from researchers on past published papers, allowing researchers of all genders to own their academic work. Audio: The Name Change Initiative and the Power in a Name Â Listen as two Berkeley Lab leaders and a transgender scientist share their firsthand experience with the difficulties of a name change in academia as they discuss the Name Change Initiative, which focuses on making it easier for researchers to reclaim past work with their preferred name. Fighting for trans rights â through research Anti-trans legislation is taking aim at issues as diverse as sports, bathroom use, gender-affirming health care, and even the ability to obtain goods and services. And while the intense backlash on trans rights appears new, the fight for LGBTQ equality is not. Legal experts at UCLAâs Williams Institute are fighting back through data.Â Learn how it’s […] Bucketlist Redemption: Meet Tom Goatant Members of the Lambda Alliance secretly gathered enough Bucketlist points to award Tom Gallant, former Lambda Alliance ERG co-chair, a goat named in his honor. Dubbed ‘Tom Goatant’, Tom Gallant got to meet his namesake in person and also received a award marking the occasion. Tom was nominated for his years of work on behalf […] More Easily Add and Manage Your Pronouns in Zoom In Zoom’s new 5.7.0 version, there is now an option to add and manage your personal pronouns. “Pronouns are an essential piece to many of our diverse users expressing themselves and respectfully referring to others. Some common examples of pronouns are he/him/his, she/her/hers, and they/them/theirs. While pronoun sharing can be particularly important to LGBTQ community […] Decades of Pride and Lambda Alliance Banner Design Overview The raising of the rainbow-colored flag in celebration of Pride Month started at Berkeley Lab over 20 years ago. This year however, Lambda Alliance – the Labâs Employee Resource Group and Activities Association that supports Sexual-orientation and Gender Minorities (SGMs) – opted to do something a little different to mark the beginning of Pride Month. […]