Home - ACL Blog - July 16, 2021 | By: Vicki Gottlich, Esq., Director, Center for Policy and Evaluation On July 13, an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) was published in the Federal Register that implements requirements set forth in the No Surprises Act to establish protections against surprise billing and excessive cost-sharing in health care. Surprise billing can occur when someone… June 30, 2021 | A guest blog by Paula Basta, M.Div., Director, Illinois Department on Aging Aging can be a challenge for any community. But the lives of LGBTQ+ older adults bring distinct challenges. It is estimated that 4.3% of the adult population of Illinois identify as LGBTQ+. The Illinois Department on Aging’s (IDoA) mission is to provide high-quality, person-centered care to all… June 28, 2021 | Rohmteen Mokhtari, ACL Public Affairs Pride month is a time of celebration for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community - including the many LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. It also is a time to honor the impact and sacrifice of early advocates for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who continue the fight today… June 22, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging On June 22, 1999, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in Olmstead v L.C., making clear that people with disabilities have a civil right under the Americans with Disabilities Act to live and fully participate in their communities. In the opinion explaining that decision, the Supreme Court… June 21, 2021 | By Kristi Hill, Deputy Director, ACL's National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research As the National Institute on Disability, Independent Living and Rehabilitation Research works through the busiest time of our grants year, we have gotten a lot of questions from across the research community about how we are implementing the Executive Order On Advancing Racial Equity and Support… June 16, 2021 | By Brian Altman, J.D., Deputy Director for the Administration on Aging President Biden’s LGBTQ Pride Month Proclamation noted “many LGBTQ+ seniors, who faced discrimination and oppression throughout their lives, are isolated and need support and elder care.” At ACL, we are committed to ensuring that LGBTQ+ older adults receive the services and supports they need and… How Alaska’s Adult Protective Services and Long-Term Care Ombudsman Programs Responded to the COVID-19 Pandemic June 14, 2021 | Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging Edwin Walker (top left), Alaska Adult Protective Services (APS) Program Manager Sandra Jenkins (top right), and Alaska Long-Term Care Ombudsman Stephanie Wheeler (bottom center). Tomorrow, communities around the world will take a stand for the rights and… May 27, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging Each year during Older Americans Month, we celebrate the vital contributions of the older adults whose knowledge, expertise, and talents make our communities stronger. We also celebrate the aging services network that works in every community across the country to empower older people to live… May 19, 2021 | Edwin Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging, ACL, and Atalaya Sergi, Director, AmeriCorps Seniors COVID-19 has changed so much of how we live, work, and connect with each other. We have had to adjust in unprecedented ways to protect ourselves and those around us. The pandemic has had a tremendous impact on older adults, who found themselves distanced from family, friends, services, and other… May 13, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging COVID-19 has taken its toll on older adults and people with disabilities in many ways. In addition to increased risk of serious illness and death from COVID-19, many also faced the serious threat of being forced to move from their homes into institutions -- or were unable to return to the community…