Tuesday, April 4, 2023 | 3:00-4:15 PM ET Register for the webinar. Join the SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging, one of the ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers, for their webinar, “Coast to Coast and Everything In-between: LGBTQ+ Inclusive State Planning.” The SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging has long worked with state units on aging and disability organizations to support the inclusion of older LGBTQ+ people in data collection, outreach, and services. These efforts were strengthened by the inclusion of LGBTQ+ communities in the 2020 reauthorization of the Older Americans Act (OAA) and subsequent State Plan guidance from ACL. This webinar will provide lessons learned from coast to coast. It will also include a discussion panel and Q&A on LGBTQ+ aging, successful planning strategies, and actions state units on aging can take to create welcoming and inclusive aging services for LGBTQ+ elders as outlined in the OAA. This webinar will feature speakers from ACL, ADvancing States, the Illinois Department on Aging, and the Maine Department of Health and Human Services. Live captioning will be provided. Requests for reasonable accommodations for the webinar should be made at least 72 hours in advance of the webinar, by sending an email to swayland@sageusa.org. "Equity in the Aging Network" Webinar Recording and Resources Now Available The recorded video, presentation slides, and featured resources for last month’s Older Adults’ Equity Collaborative (OAEC) webinar “Equity in the Aging Network: Looking 3 Years Back and 30 Years Forward” are now available. This webinar, hosted by the the New York Academy of Medicine, the OAEC Coordinating Center, on February 16, provided an overview of the last three years of equity work completed by the OAEC, and introduced attendees to both the OAEC Resource Library and the newly developed OAEC Equity Checklist. Attendees also discussed untapped areas of potential for the future of equity in research, policy, and practice. Contact mrubano@nyam.org with any questions. For more information on the OAEC member organizations, visit their homepages: National Indian Council on Aging (NICOA) - National Asian Pacific Center on Aging (NAPCA) - National Caucus and Center on Black Aging (NCBA) - MHP Salud - SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging - Follow OAEC updates on Twitter at @AgeFriendlyNYC. The OAEC includes five ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers (TARCs) that each focus on serving a unique community. Together, they work to ensure access and equity across aging services programs by providing technical assistance to the aging services network.