ASPE/BHDAP Announces $1.5 Million Investment in ID/DD Data Infrastructure August 2, 2021 | Tisamarie Sherry, MD, PhD, Deputy Assistant Secretary; & Emma Plourde, BS, Public Health Analyst; Office of Behavioral Health, Disability, and Aging Policy; Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, HHS ACL Policy Update: What the Changes in the “Public Charge” Immigration Rule Mean for the Aging and Disability Networks July 30, 2021 | Vicki Gottlich, Director - Center for Policy and Evaluation Ensuring equal access to COVID-19 vaccination: How CILs are partnering to remove some of the barriers for people with disabilities in rural areas July 30, 2021 | Mary Willard, Director of Training and Technical Assistance for the Association of Programs for Rural Independent Living (APRIL) Equal access to health care is one of the rights guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Courtney Felle, an intern in ACL’s Center for Policy and Evaluation, shares a personal reflection on the 31st anniversary of the Americans with Disabil "I am a brown, disabled, adopted scholar-activist": NIDILRR Director Dr. Anjali Forber-Pratt reflects on the impact of the ADA July 21, 2021 | Dr. Anjali J. Forber-Pratt, Director, National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research I am a brown, disabled, adopted woman who acquired transverse myelitis as an infant, and I use a manual wheelchair. My experiences growing up with these identities shaped those I developed later—who I am as a person, researcher, and activist. July 16, 2021 | By: Vicki Gottlich, Esq., Director, Center for Policy and Evaluation On July 13, an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) was published in the Federal Register that implements requirements set forth in the No Surprises Act to establish protections against surprise billing and excessive June 30, 2021 | A guest blog by Paula Basta, M.Div., Director, Illinois Department on Aging Aging can be a challenge for any community. But the lives of LGBTQ+ older adults bring distinct challenges. It is estimated that 4.3% of the adult population of Illinois identify as LGBTQ+. The Illinois Department on Aging’s (IDoA) mission is to June 28, 2021 | Rohmteen Mokhtari, ACL Public Affairs Pride month is a time of celebration for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community - including the many LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. It also is a time to honor the impact and sacrifice of early advocates for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who continue the fight today. June 22, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging On June 22, 1999, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in Olmstead v L.C., making clear that people with disabilities have a civil right under the Americans with Disabilities Act to live and fully participate in their communities. June 21, 2021 | By Kristi Hill, Deputy Director, ACL's National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research