- MilLife Topics Military Basics - Deployment - Transitioning & Retiring - Casualty Assistance - Moving & PCS - Housing & Living - Recreation, Travel & Shopping - Relationships - Parenting - Special Needs - Health & Wellness - Safety From Violence & Abuse - Financial & Legal - Education & Employment - I am a… - Benefits & Resources - BenefitsBack to Menu - View Benefits Finder - View Benefits Finder - Moving - Military OneSource Services - Planning & Prevention - Discounts & Perks - Pay & Leave - Education & Employment - Recreation - Family & Child Care - Relationships - Health Care & Emotional Well-being - Retirement - Assistance Programs - Housing - Shopping - Legal - Travel - Popular Benefits - MilTax - Space-A Travel - DOD MWR Libraries - - ResourcesBack to Menu - View Resources Finder - View Resources Finder - MilLife Guides - Military OneSource Network Websites - Podcasts - Government Websites - Webinars - External Websites - Directories & Tools - Online Learning - Mobile Apps - Popular Resources - MilitaryINSTALLATIONS - Plan My Move - Moving Personal Property - DPS Login - Other Resources - Data, Research & Statistics - - ProductsBack to Menu - View Products Finder - View Products Finder - Popular Product Types - Books and Booklets - Fact Sheets - Brochures and Cards - Flyers - Educational Items - Posters and Banners - Popular Products - A Survivor's Guide to Benefits - Chill Drills 2 â Releasing Stress - Confidential Non-medical Counseling Fact Sheet - Domestic Violence Reporting Options Poster - - Confidential Help - Non-medical Counseling - Specialty Consultations - Interactive Tools & Services - 24/7/365 Access to Support No matter where you serve or live, free and confidential help is available. In Crisis? - Veterans/Military Crisis LineBack to Menu - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - PhoneLive ChatInternationalWebsiteDial 988 then press 1 or text 838255 - - National Domestic Violence HotlineBack to Menu - National Domestic Violence Hotline - PhoneLive ChatTextCall 800-799-SAFE (7233) Text “START” to 88788 - - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault SupportBack to Menu - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - PhoneLive ChatWebsiteCall 877-995-5247 - - 988 Suicide & Crisis LifelineBack to Menu - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - PhoneLive ChatTTYCall 988 Use your preferred relay service, or dial 711 then 988 - - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy ProgramBack to Menu - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Interactive Tool - - In the United States, call 911 if you are in an emergency. For those outside the United States, call your local emergency number. 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Live Chat - About Us - Browse By Program/Office - Casualty & Mortuary Affairs - Child & Youth Advocacy - Child & Youth Programs - Commissary, Military Exchange & Lodging - Family Advocacy Program - Military Community Support Programs - Military & Family Life Counseling - Military Family Readiness Programs - Military Funeral Honors - Morale, Welfare & Recreation (MWR) - Office of Special Needs - Personnel Accountability & Evacuations Operations - Spouse Education & Career Opportunities - - Contact Military OneSource Information and support for service members and their families. About the Call Center. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Additional Ways to Contact Us - ARTICLELGBTQ in the Military: A Brief History, Current Policies and Safety 4 minute read • July 17, 2024Since 2011, openly gay, lesbian and bisexual men and women have been permitted to serve in the military. Acceptance for LGBTQ in the military expanded with the lifting of the transgender ban in 2021. Still, some LGBTQ service members may worry about living openly. They may fear being harassed or passed over for assignments or promotions. While acceptance of LGBTQ service members is a relatively new development in the militaryâs long history, the Defense Department is committed to maintaining a strong force that reflects the nationâs diversity. The history of LGBTQ in the military It wasnât until 1982 that the military enacted a policy explicitly banning gay men and lesbian women from their ranks. Before that, however, same-sex relations were criminalized and cause for discharge. And in the early 1940s, it was classified as a mental illness, disqualifying gay men and lesbian women from service. In 1993, the âDonât Ask, Donât Tellâ policy went into effect allowing closeted LGBTQ people to serve in the military. Under the policy, service members would not be asked about their sexual orientation, but would be discharged for disclosing it. Eighteen years later, Congress repealed the policy, allowing openly gay, lesbian and bisexual people to serve in the military. Another barrier was lifted in 2013 when spousal and family benefits were extended to same-sex married partners in the military. After ending temporarily in 2016, the ban on transgender individuals was again rescinded in 2021, allowing those who donât identify with their biological gender to enlist and serve in the armed forces. Being LGBTQ in the military The DOD recognizes the value of a diverse force that represents society, and has taken steps to promote acceptance and inclusion in its ranks. But, given the militaryâs 245-year history, its policy to accept LGBTQ service members into its ranks is still relatively new. Cultural changes take time; stigma against LGBTQ service members may linger. This can be a barrier to living openly as an LGBTQ person in the military. If this is true of your service member, talk with them about their concerns. The fear of backlash to living openly is understandable, but keeping a key part of their identity secret can affect their physical and mental health. You can play an important role by being a sounding board for your service member. You can help your service member feel understood and supported just by listening. If your LGBTQ service member feels unsafe If your service member is harassed or threatened, they should document the incident in writing and through photographs, if appropriate. They should also retain any evidence, such as a threatening note, then bring a formal complaint to their chain of command or the military police. If your service member feels they were passed up for a promotion or denied an assignment because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, they may file a complaint with their service branchâs military equal opportunity office. If your service member feels isolated, they may find it helpful to build a support network of fellow LGBTQ service members. Their installation may have an LGBTQ support group. If not, your service member may find one in the community outside the installation. Your service member may also benefit from talking with a professional who is familiar with the military culture. Free, confidential non-medical counseling is available through their installationâs Military and Family Life Counseling program and Military OneSource. Your service member can connect with a counselor by calling 800-342-9647. If they are outside the continental United States, they may use one of these calling options. If your service member is in crisis, the Military Crisis Line is staffed 24/7 with trained counselors. You or your service member can reach the Military Crisis Line at 988. Press 1 to speak with a responder, text 838255 or access online chat at the Military Crisis Line website. Learn about military bases worldwide. Get installation overviews, check-in procedures, housing, neighborhood information, contacts for programs and services, photos and more. -