- MilLife Topics Military Basics - Deployment - Transitioning & Retiring - Casualty Assistance - Moving & PCS - Housing & Living - Recreation, Travel & Shopping - Relationships - Parenting - Special Needs - Health & Wellness - Safety From Violence & Abuse - Financial & Legal - Education & Employment - I am a… - Benefits & Resources - BenefitsBack to Menu - View Benefits Finder - View Benefits Finder - Moving - Military OneSource Services - Planning & Prevention - Discounts & Perks - Pay & Leave - Education & Employment - Recreation - Family & Child Care - Relationships - Health Care & Emotional Well-being - Retirement - Assistance Programs - Housing - Shopping - Legal - Travel - Popular Benefits - MilTax - Space-A Travel - DOD MWR Libraries - - ResourcesBack to Menu - View Resources Finder - View Resources Finder - MilLife Guides - Military OneSource Network Websites - Podcasts - Government Websites - Webinars - External Websites - Directories & Tools - Online Learning - Mobile Apps - Popular Resources - MilitaryINSTALLATIONS - Plan My Move - Moving Personal Property - DPS Login - Other Resources - Data, Research & Statistics - - ProductsBack to Menu - View Products Finder - View Products Finder - Popular Product Types - Book/Booklets - Fact Sheets - Brochures - Flyers - Educational Items - Posters - Popular Products - Personal Property Claims Fact Sheet - School Liaison Flyer - Non-medical Counseling Flyer - Creating Calm Relaxation Techniques for Kids Book - ABCs of Safe Sleep - - Confidential Help - Non-medical Counseling - Specialty Consultations - Interactive Tools & Services - 24/7/365 Access to Support No matter where you serve or live, free and confidential help is available. In Crisis? - Veterans/Military Crisis LineBack to Menu - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - PhoneLive ChatInternationalWebsiteDial 988 then press 1 or text 838255 - - National Domestic Violence HotlineBack to Menu - National Domestic Violence Hotline - PhoneLive ChatTextCall 800-799-SAFE (7233) Text “START” to 88788 - - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault SupportBack to Menu - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - PhoneLive ChatWebsiteCall 877-995-5247 - - 988 Suicide & Crisis LifelineBack to Menu - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - PhoneLive ChatTTYCall 988 Use your preferred relay service, or dial 711 then 988 - - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy ProgramBack to Menu - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Interactive Tool - - In the United States, call 911 if you are in an emergency. For those outside the United States, call your local emergency number. 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Live Chat - About Us - Browse By Program/Office - Casualty & Mortuary Affairs - Child & Youth Advocacy - Child & Youth Programs - Commissary, Military Exchange & Lodging - Family Advocacy Program - Military Community Support Programs - Military & Family Life Counseling - Military Family Readiness Programs - Military Funeral Honors - Morale, Welfare & Recreation (MWR) - Office of Special Needs - Personnel Accountability & Evacuations Operations - Spouse Education & Career Opportunities - - Contact Military OneSource Information and support for service members and their families. About the Call Center. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Additional Ways to Contact Us - ARTICLELegal and Financial Review for LGBTQ Service Members 4 minute read • Aug. 9, 2024We have created the information on this website educate and inform service members and their families on their personal legal affairs. Nothing contained on the website is a substitute for the competent legal advice of a licensed attorney. Service members and their families seeking legal advice should consult the staff of the nearest installation legal assistance office. The LGBTQ community has made great strides in obtaining federal, state and military benefits and protections. Review the following information to make sure you understand the resources and services available to you. Federal legislation The federal government has worked to implement federal benefits for legally married, same-sex couples. Spousal and family benefits for service members and their same-sex spouses — The Defense Department extends benefits such as health care and Basic Allowance for Housing to all married service members, regardless of sexual orientation. - Taxpayer benefits — For information and guidance on IRS regulations, visit the Answers to Frequently Asked Questions for Same-Sex Couples webpage. - Social Security benefits — The Social Security Administration processes spousal and survivor benefits for same-sex married couples. - Immigration — U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services reviews immigration visa petitions filed on behalf of same-sex spouses in the same manner as those filed on behalf of opposite-sex spouses. - Family support program — Defense Department leaders extended access to family support programs and other resources to same-sex couples. - State legislation The Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in all 50 states in 2015, but here are a few things to take into consideration: Taxes — Contact a tax professional to find out if you and your partner may file a joint tax return. - Property ownership — If you have property, be sure to familiarize yourself with the joint property ownership rules in your state and how they apply to inheritance and property division in a divorce. - Parental and adoption rights — In many states, both same-sex partners are not automatically considered legal parents when the couple has a child or adopts. - Inheritance rights — Depending on state laws, same-sex couples may not have the same rights of survivorship protection. Without a will, your state may distribute your property according to the state’s rules. - Medical decision-making privileges — Medical personnel may look to immediate family members to make these decisions, so get legal assistance to ensure your choices are covered. - Housing rights — In states that don’t explicitly prohibit it, same-sex couples may face housing discrimination. - Protect your family’s financial future Here are some ways all couples can protect themselves and their families: Know your state and local laws — You will generally have more protections if you are legally married. - Begin financial planning — A visit to your installation’s Personal Financial Management Office is a great place to start. - Create powers of attorney for both partners — A general power of attorney authorizes a person to act on your behalf for most things. A special power of attorney authorizes your designee to act on your behalf in a specific situation. Examples of this include registering a car or getting medical care for your children. - Draft a will — A will is a legally binding document that describes how you want your property distributed after your death. It may also include other matters, such as the appointment of your child’s guardian. - Create a living will — A living will, or advance medical directive, allows you to describe medical treatments you want in case of injury or illness and to identify someone to make medical decisions for you, if you are unable to do so. - Create a My Social Security account — Creating a My Social Security account is a great way to track your and your spouse’s earnings, estimate benefits or handle select other Social Security business. - Title your property jointly — When either partner buys personal property or real estate, title it jointly with rights of survivorship so the surviving partner receives full ownership, should either partner die. - Draft a parenting agreement — For parents who can’t legally share custody of their children, this document helps identify parental rights and responsibilities. - Take advantage of the free legal services available to service members and their dependents. If you or your spouse have questions about estate planning, same sex marriage rights or other personal civil legal matters, you can contact your local military legal assistance office. Learn about military bases worldwide. Get installation overviews, check-in procedures, housing, neighborhood information, contacts for programs and services, photos and more. Release 5.24.18a -