Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward earning up to 8.75 Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) CEUs for attending both days of the in-person 1.5-day SMCCP training or 5.75 D-SAACP CEUs for attending the second day of the in-person SMCCP training. Participants who complete this training online will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward earning up to 8.0 Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) CEUs. The military has its own way of life – its own social structure, unique hierarchy, and even its own laws. Community-based victim service providers who are not familiar with the military may find it baffling and impenetrable. But when a sexual assault involves both community and military providers, both parties must know how to work together to support the victim more effectively. This interactive, 1.5-day training is designed for community victim advocates, law enforcement officials, sexual assault nurse examiners, mental health counselors, prosecutors, military victim advocates, sexual assault medical forensic examiners, military chaplains, and military criminal investigators. The purpose of this program is to train local community victim advocates on building effective partnerships with local military installations to enhance and extend the system of support for sexual assault victims in the military. Throughout this training, participants build knowledge about military systems, protocols, and culture to improve service provision to sexual assault victims in the military and to develop an appreciation of the perspectives of their future collaborative partners. With the knowledge gained through this training process and their own expertise in sexual assault, local community victim advocates will be able to serve as knowledgeable resources to military installations. Active participation in each of the following training modules will help you accomplish these specific learning objectives: Introduction and Getting Acquainted Explain the importance of establishing credibility with the military. - - Military 101 Identify the branches of military service. - Describe the military command structure. - Distinguish between military and civilian culture. - - Military Response to Sexual Assault Examine the issue of sexual violence in the military and the Department of Defense's (DoD) response. - Identify military resources and examine their roles and responsibilities. - Compare and contrast roles of community-based advocates, military victim advocates (VA), and sexual assault response coordinators (SARCs). - - Confidentiality and Reporting Options Explain Restricted and Unrestricted Reporting options for sexual assault. - Identify military personnel who offer privilege, confidential reporting, and covered communications. - Summarize the mandated reporting requirements. - Explain how a forensic exam can impact Restricted Reporting. - Explain how mandated reporting can impact receiving medical care. - - Unique Issues for Sexual Assault Victims in the Military Explain military sexual trauma. - Describe issues unique to military victims of sexual violence. - Identify possible barriers to reporting sexual assault within the military. - Identify issues with male victims in the military. - - Military Justice Process Examine DoD Directive's Victim Bill of Rights. - Identify the Commander's role in the military justice system. - Compare and contrast military and civilian justice systems. - - Steps Toward Successful Collaboration Identify barriers and solutions for successful collaborations with the military. - Describe tips for establishing successful collaborations with the military. - - Let Others Know About This Training Download Flier [PDF, 299KB] to print and distribute. Strengthening Military -Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military LGBTQ+ Survivors of Sexual Assault The Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military LGBTQ+ Survivors of Sexual Assault training is now available for victim service providers. SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+ is an interactive, 3-hour supplemental module to the current SMCCP training. SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+ allows community- and military-based advocates and allied providers to take a more indepth look at serving military LGBTQ+ sexual assault survivors. Throughout the training, participants will learn the language and terms used when working with LGBTQ+ communities, identify statistics of LGBTQ+ military sexual assaults, discuss trauma-informed approaches to serving military LGBTQ+ victims, and identify on- and off-installation resources. By increasing awareness and knowledge, both community and military victim advocates will begin or build on their understanding of LGBTQ+ survivors of sexual assault in the military and how best to serve them. Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward D-SAACP CEUs. If you would like additional information about SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+, or to learn how to bring this training to your installation or community, please contact OVC TTAC at TTAC@ovcttac.org. Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military Male-Identified Survivors of Sexual Assault The Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military Male-Identified Survivors of Sexual Assault training is now available for victim service providers. SMCCP 2.0: Male-Identified Survivors is an interactive, 4-hour supplemental, in person training that allows community- and military-based advocates and allied providers to take a more in-depth look at serving military male-identified sexual assault survivors. Throughout the training, participants will gain a better understanding of the role of male gender socialization in the experience of military sexual violence, examine the role of hazing and sexual harassment in victimization, compare and contrast traditional victim service delivery models to the public health approach, and explore trauma-informed responses and resources for male-identified victims of sexual assault. Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward D-SAACP CEUs. If you would like additional information about SMCCP 2.0: Male-Identified, or to learn how to bring this training to your installation or community, please contact OVC TTAC at TTAC@ovcttac.org.