This blog is crossposted from WhiteHouse.gov Last weekend, the Human Rights Campaign, in partnership with the National Education Association and American Counseling Association, hosted the first-ever “Time to Thrive” conference in Las Vegas, Nevada. The conference brought together hundreds of educators, school administrators, coaches, social workers, mental health providers, and other youth development staff for a conversation about promoting safety, inclusion, and well-being among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth. Since taking office, President Obama and his Administration have taken significant steps to advance equality for the LGBT community – including addressing and preventing bullying and harassment of LGBT young people in classrooms and communities around the country. That’s why I was proud to moderate a panel discussion with colleagues from the Departments of Education, Health and Human Services, and Agriculture to highlight some of the bullying prevention and youth empowerment resources available across the federal government. View video footage of the panel discussion, including a special video message from Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor to President Obama. If you want to learn more, check out these resources: White House Resources - It Gets Better Videos - White House LGBT Conference on Safe Schools and Communities - President Obama & the First Lady: Conference on Bullying Prevention StopBullying.gov - StopBullying.gov Training Center - Media Guidelines for Bullying Prevention - StopBullying.gov Youth Engagement Toolkit - Follow/like StopBullying.gov on Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr U.S. Department of Health and Human Services - Family Acceptance of LGBT Young People Leads to Better behavioral Health Outcomes - Practitioner’s Resource Guide: Helping Families to Support Their LGBT Children - Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration LGBT Webpage - Increasing Capacity for Reducing Bullying and Its Impact on the Lifecourse of Youth Involved U.S. Department of Education - Civil Rights Data Collection - ED-DOJ School Discipline Guidance Package - U.S. Department of Education Dear Colleague Letter: Harassment (October 2010) - U.S. Department of Education Dear Colleague Letter: Gay Straight Alliances and the Equal Access Act (June 2011) - U.S. Department of Education Office of Special Education Programs Dear Colleague Letter: Bullying (August 2013) - Creating a Safe and Respectful Environment on Our Nation's School Buses - Creating a Safe and Respectful Environment in Our Nation's Classrooms U.S. Department of Justice - United States Reaches Agreement with Arcadia, California, School District to Resolve Sex Discrimination Allegations - Departments of Justice and Education Resolve Harassment Allegations in Anoka-Hennepin School District in Minnesota - Departments of Justice and Education Reach Agreement with Tehachapi, California, Public Schools to Resolve Harassment Allegations U.S. Department of Agriculture