NCJ Number 255039 Date Published January 2020 Length 67 pages Annotation After exploring pathways to the polyvictimization of LGBTQ+ youth, this publication discusses effective ways victim service providers, school personnel, and the general public can intervene to bring these youth healing and prevention from harm. Abstract In this publication, LGBTQ+ refers to "lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer people, as well as all those whose sexual orientations and gender identities (or the lack thereof) do not conform to societal norms." Statistical evidence indicates that LGBTQ+ Americans are much more likely to be victims of violence than the general U.S. population; and this violence is often repetitive, since it has been documented that once a person becomes a victim of violence, she/he is more likely to be re-victimized. Such statistical evidence challenges us to prevent and provide early intervention for LGBTQ+ youth. After exploring the data and research that documents early victimization and violence against LGBTQ+ children and youth, this publication discusses the importance and the means of providing "safe, stable. nurturing relationships (SSNRs)" as a model of prevention and intervention for LGBTQ+ children and youth. What victim service providers can do to design and implement this model is discussed, followed by consideration of what any adult can do to create safe, stable, nurturing relationships for children and youth, particularly LGBTQ+ children and youth, who are at increased risk for abuse and violence. The discussion expands upon some of the following suggestions: 1) Show support publicly; 2) support and link parents; 3) Advocate for inclusive faith communities; 4) Advocate for positive policy changes; and 5) encourage LGBTQ+ youth groups to invite parents. Recommended resources include publications and organizations. Grant Number(s) Sponsoring Agency Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) Address 810 Seventh Street NW, Washington, DC 20531, United States Sale Source National Resource Center for Reaching Victims (NRC) Publication Format Document Document (Online) Publication Type Report (Technical Assistance) Report (Grant Sponsored) Instructional Material (Programmed) Language English Country United States of America