Award Information Description of original award (Fiscal Year 2010, $100,000) The OJJDP FY 10 Earmarks Program furthers the Department's mission by providing grants, cooperative agreements, and other assistance authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, to organizations identified in the Conference Report to accompany the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 (P.L. 111-117), H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 111-366 at 702-714. Outright Vermont will implement the Anti-Bullying Outreach Project to address bullying among high school students living in rural communities in Vermont. The project will engage ninth to twelfth grade public school students from Bennington, Caledonia, Essex, Lamoille, Orange, Orleans, Windham, and Windsor counties in activities that will reduce incidents of bullying. Outright Vermont will implement this project in accordance with its highly effective anti-bullying curriculum, which includes delivering staff-facilitated presentations and youth Speakers Bureau panels to classrooms and school-wide assemblies. The project also supports lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ) students and will work to identify supportive faculty and staff members at twenty nine schools in eight targeted counties in Vermont. This project will develop peer-based support groups, including GSAs, to support LGBTQ youth. Project objectives will include increasing support to LGBTQ identified students, identifying supportive faculty and staff, expanding the network of Gay Straight Alliances and support services to maintain them, and providing anti-bullying training, resources, and support to students and school personnel. Outright Vermont will measure success in several ways. Quantitative measures will include youth and educator feedback surveys following presentations. Monthly Tracking Reports will quantify the number of youth reached; the number of schools contacted and presented to; and the number of active, inactive, and emerging GSAs. Outright's annual "Safe Schools Report Card" will be utilized to provide a broader view of bullying trends across the state, and will help quantify the climate at the twenty nine schools in the targeted communities. NCA/NCF