NCJ Number 239955 Date Published 2012 Length 50 pages Annotation These Model Sexual Health Care Standards for Youth in State Custody reflect the minimum requirements that facilities should meet in providing the sexual health care needed by these youth. Abstract The proposed sexual health care standards are especially important because adolescents confined to foster care and juvenile justice facilities are overwhelmingly members of the communities most affected by and at risk for HIV/AIDS. They are low-income Black and Latino youth, with a relatively high proportion who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth (LGBTQ) who are survivors of violence and other abuse. Although these youth are at a proportionally greater risk for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) than the general youth population, they are more likely to be denied access to appropriate and effective HIV prevention, sexual health education, and sexual and reproductive health care. When health care is provided, it often ignores or isolates LGBTQ youth and their health needs. In an effort to address this health crisis, the Center for HIV Law and Policy (CHLP) launched the Teen SENSE initiative (Sexual Health and Education Now in State Environments). This is a sexual health and HIV prevention initiative based in the rights of youth to receive these services. Teen SENSE has engaged experts in adolescent medicine, sexual health education, foster care, and juvenile justice for the purpose of developing a complete advocacy model and coordinate its implementation. A Federal and State legal framework has been developed that asserts the legal right of adolescents to comprehensive, scientifically accurate, LGBTQ-inclusive sexual health care, services, and education. In the current report, Teen SENSE presents 45 model standards that support health screenings that include sexual histories; information and treatment for sexual abuse, pregnancy, and STI transmissions; and ongoing care and discharge planning related to sexual health.