NCJ Number 253111 Date Published January 2019 Length 27 pages Annotation This article presents findings and methodology of an Illinois 2016 statewide assessment of the victimization and help-seeking experiences of LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning) victims and how they differ from those of non-LGBTQ+ victims, as well as how experiences may vary based on a victim's LGB identity, i.e., lesbian/gay compared to bisexual. Abstract Participants were recruited primarily through an online consumer panel invitation and also from learning about the study through Illinois victim service providers. A total of 1,569 individuals completed the online victim needs assessment survey, 41 percent of whom lived in Chicago or its neighboring counties. Most participants were White (75 percent), followed by African-American (11 percent), Hispanic or Latino (9 percent), Asian (6 percent), or other (2 percent). Individuals who identified as LGBTQ+ were more likely than non-LGBTQ+ individuals to report having been victimized at some point in their lifetimes; and they were more likely to have experienced a violent crime in their lifetimes. Other crimes they were more likely to experience were sexual assault, domestic violence, stalking, physical abuse as an adult, physical or sexual abuse as a child, and to have witnessed a homicide. There was no difference in the overall number of victimizations in comparing gay or lesbian individuals and bisexual individuals. In seeking help for their victimization, LGBTQ+ individuals were most likely to contact friends and mental health providers for support. Medical providers, victim-service providers, and hotlines were the least likely to be sought for help. LGBTQ+ victims who did not report their victimization to police cited anticipated negative responses from police. Not knowing how to access appropriate services was the greatest barrier to seeking and receiving victimization services. Recommendations for policy and practice are discussed. 4 figures