Award Information Description of original award (Fiscal Year 2011, $499,925) OJJDP's Field Initiated Research and Evaluation (FIRE) Program funds research and evaluation that address how the juvenile justice system responds to juvenile delinquency. Funded research projects seek answers to questions that will inform policy and suggest ways to enhance the juvenile justice system. As set forth in the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended (Pub. L. No. 93-415, 42 U.S.C. ยง 5601 et seq.), OJJDP may conduct research or evaluation in juvenile justice matters, for the purpose of providing research and evaluation relating to control of juvenile delinquency and serious crime committed by juveniles; successful efforts to prevent first-time minor offenders from committing subsequent involvement in serious crime; successful efforts to prevent recidivism; and the juvenile justice system. This program is authorized pursuant to 42 U.S.C. ยง 3796ee et seq. The study will assess the characteristics and needs of the Lesbian, Gay, Bi-Sexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) and young men who have sex with men (YMSM) populations involved in the commercial sex market to learn about their interactions with law enforcement, prosecutors, and court personnel. In addition to examining interactions the applicants will assess how LGBTQ youth enter the system, what options are available at sentencing, what services are available after detention and what percentage of youth return to the streets after serving their sentence. Applicants propose a multi method approach including the use of Respondent Driven Sampling to recruit 300 youth for in-depth interviews. The study will also include multiple field and court observations, as well as semi-structured interviews and focus groups with key juvenile justice stakeholders. The results of the study will enhance law enforcement, prosecutor, and service provider knowledge, indentify training opportunities, and assist policy makers. CA/NCF