Award Information - Hampden County Description of original award (Fiscal Year 2021, $600,000) The overarching goal of One Mission: A Comprehensive Service Program for Victims of Human Trafficking (One Mission) is to expand and strengthen trauma-informed victim-centered services that includes comprehensive, individualized case management and evidence-based therapeutic services for human trafficking victims ages 0-24 and their families, with focus on specialty populations including Latinx and LGBTQ+ communities in Hampden County, MA. To achieve this goal, One Mission proposes to increase access to and coordination of trauma-informed individualized case management services for youth human trafficking victims with focus on Latinx and LGBTQ+ populations. One Mission will serve 75 victims in year 1 and 100 victims in years 2 and 3 with 20% identifying as Latinx and 10% identifying as LBGTQ+. Services, measured by service-hour or units delivered and type of service, will include 2000 services provision units provided through: client intake and orientation, ongoing case management, explanation of benefits and social service advocacy, 50 service provision units related to education and employment services, 1000 service provision units given through emotional/moral support and protection/safety planning. In addition, One Mission will expand access to evidence-based trauma-informed therapeutic services for victims ages under age 25 and their caregivers with focus on Latinx and LGBTQ+ populations. Trauma-informed therapy will be offered to all victims in need with a target of serving 30 victims a year through evidence-based trauma-informed individual therapy. Group therapy will be offered to caregivers as well as victims two times a year. Additionally, One Mission proposes to increase community-level engagement through trauma-informed trainings in order to raise awareness of human trafficking and improve identification and referrals for services by providing 10 trainings a year to educate 1000 professionals over the course of the program. Lastly, One Mission will provide and enhance outreach and interagency collaborations in order to deliver a coordinated response to meet trafficking victims’ needs and expand the availability of services. Ten outreach activities will be conducted a year to increase awareness of services, with a special focus on education, medical and faith-based groups. Designated team members will provide mental health consultation to medical providers serving youth trafficking victims within Baystate Medical Center. One Mission will also build upon interagency collaborations with key partners (YWCA of Western MA, Robert F. Kennedy Children’s Action Corps, Department of Children and Families Missing and Absent Team) to insure comprehensive non-duplicative services and to eliminate service gaps in Hampden County.