Award Information Description of original award (Fiscal Year 2016, $403,951) This project supports efforts of local communities and organizations to develop or enhance their mentoring capacity, facilitate outreach to child victims or youth at risk (17 years old or younger) of commercial sexual exploitation and domestic sex trafficking, and increasing the availability of direct services to these youth. The population to be served is girls and boys, including LGBTQ youth who are at risk or are victims of CSE and DST. The grantees will develop or update strategies to recruit and maintain mentors to serve this population; begin or enhance efforts to identify and enroll girls and boys, including LGBTQ youth who are in need of services; and provide needed services to these youth. Grantees will join current and previously funded grantees and work with OJJDP's training and technical assistance provider to develop or enhance mentoring service models and mentor training based on best practices. The Sacramento City Unified School District (SCUSD) has been providing services to at-risk and CSEC survivors since 2009. Mentoring is a key component of SCUSDs mission to ensure that students graduate as globally competitive lifelong learners, prepared to succeed in a career and higher education institution of their choice to secure gainful employment and contribute to society. The SCUSDs Youth Development Support Services (YDSS) department staff and partners will leverage their relationships with young people to provide direct services while youth and CSEC survivor voices will guide and direct programming. Survivor voices are elevated through the STREAT Team (Students Together Reducing Exploitation And Trafficking), a youth voice and action group founded by youth survivors and peer allies to reduce CSEC in the Sacramento area. Building on the success of the STREAT Team, YDSS will implement the Youth in Action mentoring program to support the enhancement of mentoring service models and mentor training to focus on the needs of girls and boys, including LGBTQ youth, who are at risk or are victims of commercial sexual exploitation and domestic sex trafficking. The Youth in Action mentoring program will partner with local service providers to provide survivors and high-risk youth with coordinated case management through collaborative partnerships. Over the three-year grant period, up to 120 exploited and at-risk youth will be provided positive adult mentors and enhanced support services through coordinated case management. Mentors will also facilitate referrals for case management to YDSS staff and community partners as needed. Objectives of the program are: 1) Reduce the likelihood of commercial sexual exploitation and domestic sex trafficking victimization and increase the likelihood of positive outcomes for up to 120 youth; 2) Enhance training for 10 mentors and provide ongoing development and support after the initial training is complete; and, 3) Enhance direct services to up to 120 girls and boys, including LGBTQ youth, who are at risk for or victims of commercial sexual exploitation and domestic sex trafficking. CA/NCF