Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page explores behavioral health equity and its importance in reducing health disparities and promoting the provision of high-quality healthcare services for all. It features several populations of focus, including American Indians/Alaska Natives, Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and more, to emphasize the need for equitable and accessible health care. This online article includes information on how a parent’s posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms can affect his or her children. It describes some of the common child responses to those symptoms and offers guidance regarding what a parent should do when faced with this situation. Designed for military service members, this web page discusses signs of distress and suicidal thoughts and encourages readers to get help when they feel suicidal or unsafe or are in crisis. It also identifies sources of additional information and support. This web page focuses on SAMHSA’s National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative, which aims to improve treatment and services for youth and families who have experienced traumatic events. It explores childhood trauma and links to resources for parents and caregivers, educators, health professionals, and more. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. The National Coalition for Sexual Health developed this tip sheet on COVID-19 for youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The tip sheet explains how LGBTQ+ youth could contract the virus, suggests ways to keep relationships strong during the pandemic, and offers information on accessing gender-affirming healthcare services. This online article provides an overview of suicide prevention in the Marine Corps, identifies warning signs and risk factors for suicide, and highlights ways for Marine Corps members and their loved ones to ask questions and offer support if they are concerned about someone. The web page also lists helplines and other sources of additional support. This web page features a downloadable guide and additional resources to help with hurricane preparedness for individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or members of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups. The seven-page guide includes a checklist and things to think about as you plan, such as creating an evacuation plan and preparing a grab-and-go box. ZERO TO THREE is an organization that supports the healthy development and well-being of infants and toddlers and their families. Their military-specific website includes materials geared specifically toward helping military parents to support their young children. Veterans and their loved ones can reach the Veterans Crisis Line for free, confidential support even if they are not registered with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or enrolled in VA health care. The VA is partnering with SAMHSA to operate the national helpline. This web page is dedicated to helping transgender people and their families stay safe from storms and any issues they may face during an evacuation. It lists items to include in an emergency kit, as well as emergency contact information for transgender discrimination in shelters and services. This program equips army communities to prevent suicide, successfully intervene to help community members experiencing suicidal thoughts or planning, and support community members grieving the loss of someone to suicide. The program website identifies and links to resources for soldiers in crisis; training resources for an intervention model called Ask, Care, Escort (ACE); and articles, podcasts, and other resources about building resilience. The American Red Cross offers a variety of disaster preparedness apps on topics such as floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, hurricanes, and an all-inclusive emergency app that monitors 35 different severe weather and emergency alerts. The apps provide alerts, as well as a check-in system to let your loved ones know you are safe. There is also an app for children to teach them preparedness for real-life emergencies. This web page focuses on the enforcement and prevention of hate crimes. It includes news and events related to hate crimes, grant opportunities, information regarding laws and policies related to hate crimes, national and state statistics, and a space for users to report a hate crime. This web page explores the importance of identity and cultural dimension in the relationship among patients and their mental healthcare providers. It provides strategies and guidance for mental healthcare providers seeking to create a welcoming, culturally competent healthcare environment through which patients can receive effective healing or recovery. OutCare has compiled a list of healthcare resources in all 50 states for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority communities (LGBTQ+). At this web page, you can find a list of available mental health services, shelters, support groups, and more in your state. This hotline from SAGE was developed specifically for older adults who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The hotline is available 24/7 in English and Spanish, with translation in 180 languages. Responders are certified in crisis response and can provide information about community support resources. This program works to help prevent suicide, with a focus on military service members and their families but relevance also to first responders, healthcare professionals, and communities. The program offers many resources through its website, some still in development, including podcasts, videos, and tip sheets. The Trevor Project is a suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization that provides 24/7/365 information and support to young people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. Trained counselors are available through call, text, or chat for individuals needing support through a difficult time. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. The Provider Resilience desktop app gives healthcare professionals tools to guard against burnout and compassion fatigue as they help service members, veterans, and their families. The app allows users to complete a variety of self-assessments to understand their level of resilience and risk of burnout. Users must create an account with health.mil to gain access to the app.