This online toolkit from the Washington Department of Health has resources to help make homes and communities safer from suicide. Included in the toolkit are webinars, trainings for healthcare professionals, videos, and more. This educational resource for pediatric healthcare professionals and other health professionals helps identify partnerships and strategies for preventing youth suicide. The strategies target both clinical settings as well as community and school settings. The Patient Safety Screener (PSS-3) is designed for use in acute care settings with patients who may be at risk for suicide. The Suicide Prevention Resource Center provides a video on how to use a tool with additional explanation on the use of PSS-3. The Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale is a 10-question screening tool to identify if a parent is suffering from depression, anxiety, or thoughts of harming themselves. This questionnaire should be conducted and scored by a health professional. This website from Perinatal Services British Columbia includes a scoring guide and questionnaires in 14 different languages. This website provides an overview of suicide in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities and presents information and resources for providers, patients, and people interested in helping prevent suicide and promote behavioral health among AI/AN communities. Led by experts associated with the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the Bold Goal aims to lower the annual rate of suicide by 20 percent by 2025. On its website, the program offers resources in its four areas for intervention: firearms, healthcare systems, emergency departments, and corrections systems. Links to related resources from other organizations are also provided. This website features several Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) screeners, including the PHQ-9, a widely used scale to assess for depression that also asks about suicidal thoughts. This tool is often used in primary care settings. An instruction manual available for download from the website presents recommended follow-up based on various types of responses to the PHQ. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. The American Association of Suicidology maintains a collection of online toolkits and briefs that cover a breadth of topics related to suicide. Materials cover topics such as engaging the media as a partner in prevention, suicide prevention for the military, crisis support for people with autism, and tools for survivors.