This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but a National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center account must be created to access it. This seven-page publication was developed for local, state, federal, and community organizations providing services after a disaster. It aims to help organizations develop policies and train staff and volunteers to appropriately and effectively serve members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community during and after a disaster. It is important for health centers to prepare for emergencies by considering the various needs of vulnerable populations, including LGBT individuals. This tip sheet provides suggestions for creating an inclusive environment, training staff, including this population in emergency preparedness planning, and more. Transgender and gender non-conforming individuals may face discrimination when seeking shelter during an emergency. This guide can help shelters strengthen their anti-discrimination policy and develop more inclusive policy standards for staff and residents. The guide has a glossary of terms and definitions and sample documents. This tip sheet discusses how religious leaders can best serve their communities after a disaster by respectfully focusing on every survivor’s needs. It defines sexual orientation and gender identity, suggests ways to prepare for disasters, and identifies unique challenges LGBT people face in disasters. This article describes the impacts disasters may have on people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). It highlights ways the LGBTQ+ community may be more vulnerable than the general public during and after disaster, as well as steps funding and other organizations can take to improve various situations for the LGBTQ+ community. This website provides an overview of suicide in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities and presents information and resources for providers, patients, and people interested in helping prevent suicide and promote behavioral health among AI/AN communities. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. This webinar can help professionals learn how to better work with youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). It teaches how to adjust care to provide a safe space for LGBTQ individuals who are dealing with trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. This six-module course is designed to help mental health and substance use disorder treatment professionals improve services for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). Modules focus on understanding the unique needs of this population, working with transgender people, and more. This section of the National Center for PTSD’s website is tailored for professional researchers, mental health treatment practitioners, and others who focus in their work on helping people cope with trauma. The website offers free, in-depth continuing education courses with topics ranging from posttraumatic stress disorder in older adulthood and cross-cultural considerations to suicidal ideation and resilience.