Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page presents resources from SAMHSA and other organizations related to mental health and substance use in people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority populations. The web page identifies SAMHSA programs and initiatives, SAMHSA resources, and other federal resources. This 6-minute video reviews important terminology to be aware of when working with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. This 6-minute video reviews important terminology to be aware of when working with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. Created for healthcare professionals with a focus on services for youth, this guide highlights the importance of pursuing gender-affirming care when implementing a trauma-informed approach in healthcare services. It includes tips for supporting transgender, gender diverse, and intersex (TGI) youth and explains the impact gender-affirming care can have on the resilience and traumatic healing of an individual. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a video showing a therapeutic encounter with a transgender youth discussing the difficulties he has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course includes a video of therapy, followed by reflections by expert commentators. The course does not cost money to complete, but people must create a National Child Traumatic Stress Network Learning Center account to access it. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a therapeutic encounter between a transgender teenager and a mental health professional in which they discuss difficulties the youth has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course follows the presentation with a reflection on the encounter, as well as a post-presentation and evaluation test. To complete the course, users must create an account with the NCTSN Learning Center. This 6-minute video reviews important terminology to be aware of when working with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. The National Coalition for Sexual Health developed this tip sheet on COVID-19 for youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The tip sheet explains how LGBTQ+ youth could contract the virus, suggests ways to keep relationships strong during the pandemic, and offers information on accessing gender-affirming healthcare services. This web page features a downloadable guide and additional resources to help with hurricane preparedness for individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or members of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups. The seven-page guide includes a checklist and things to think about as you plan, such as creating an evacuation plan and preparing a grab-and-go box. This article details the unique problems facing individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) living in temporary shelters due to natural disasters. It discusses factors that public health officials should consider when interacting with the community, the dangers members of this community may face while in a shelter, and steps that local health departments can take to be of better assistance. This resource highlights the importance of disaster services that include and account for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, and two-spirit (LGBTQI2-S) community. It identifies barriers the LGBTQI2-S community may face, ways disaster planners and responders can mitigate or address these barriers, and tips for finding and using a person’s preferred pronouns. This 24-minute video serves as an introduction to the various needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth who have experienced trauma. It pairs with a discussion guide on how providers can use the video to promote awareness and develop more inclusive environments (https://www.nctsn.org/resources/safe-places-safe-spaces-creating-welcoming-and-inclusive-environments-traumatized-lgbtq). This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but an NCTSN Learning Center account must be created to access it. This web page shares guidelines to help evacuation shelters ensure their space is safe for transgender people. These guidelines include respecting a person’s self-identification and responding to inappropriate behavior or harassment. This briefing paper discusses the January 12, 2010, earthquake that occurred in Haiti and how it affected Haitians who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT). This disaster further marginalized vulnerable populations that received insufficient help. The end of this paper includes a checklist for governments and international agencies to include people who are LGBT in their disaster planning. This manual presents an adaptation of Psychological First Aid for professionals working with youth experiencing homelessness. It explores childhood trauma and offers strategies for establishing engagement, offering practical assistance, and creating a safe space. The manual includes worksheets and examples to refer to when offering services. This web page is dedicated to helping transgender people and their families stay safe from storms and any issues they may face during an evacuation. It lists items to include in an emergency kit, as well as emergency contact information for transgender discrimination in shelters and services. This web page explores the importance of identity and cultural dimension in the relationship among patients and their mental healthcare providers. It provides strategies and guidance for mental healthcare providers seeking to create a welcoming, culturally competent healthcare environment through which patients can receive effective healing or recovery. This web page highlights research regarding the health of different populations, including Black/African American, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian American, Hispanic, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander populations. It explores the general populations’ mental health statuses, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around mental health. This web page provides mental health information and resources for multiple populations including populations of people who are Black, Indigenous, and/or people of color (BIPOC). It explores the unique impacts of mental health issues and services on BIPOC communities, highlighting the importance of culturally competent care. This infographic showcases SAMHSA’s principles of trauma-informed care, which can guide practitioners and other groups working with individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). Tips include making services culturally relevant, listening openly, and creating opportunities for LGBTQ+ clients to take the lead in their treatment. This tip sheet covers how transgender people can face difficulties in safely getting to shelters in an emergency situation because of discrimination. Disaster workers can use these tips to ensure everyone affected by an emergency evacuation receives quality help. OutCare has compiled a list of healthcare resources in all 50 states for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority communities (LGBTQ+). At this web page, you can find a list of available mental health services, shelters, support groups, and more in your state. In this hour-long webinar, speakers present findings from a study that found disparate impacts of disasters on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) communities. The webinar explores disaster impacts and how intersections of identity can increase vulnerability. It also includes policy recommendations.