Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a video showing a therapeutic encounter with a transgender youth discussing the difficulties he has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course includes a video of therapy, followed by reflections by expert commentators. The course does not cost money to complete, but people must create a National Child Traumatic Stress Network Learning Center account to access it. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a therapeutic encounter between a transgender teenager and a mental health professional in which they discuss difficulties the youth has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course follows the presentation with a reflection on the encounter, as well as a post-presentation and evaluation test. To complete the course, users must create an account with the NCTSN Learning Center. This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but an NCTSN Learning Center account must be created to access it. This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but a National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center account must be created to access it. This six-module course is designed to help mental health and substance use disorder treatment professionals improve services for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). Modules focus on understanding the unique needs of this population, working with transgender people, and more.