Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page explores behavioral health equity and its importance in reducing health disparities and promoting the provision of high-quality healthcare services for all. It features several populations of focus, including American Indians/Alaska Natives, Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and more, to emphasize the need for equitable and accessible health care. Know the Signs is a California campaign to make the public aware of warning signs of suicide, ways to offer help, and available resources. There are resources that can be adapted by other organizations for awareness campaigns. This web page focuses on SAMHSA’s National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative, which aims to improve treatment and services for youth and families who have experienced traumatic events. It explores childhood trauma and links to resources for parents and caregivers, educators, health professionals, and more. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. This tip sheet provides guidance to help leaders understand their role in individual and community recovery following a tragedy such as a natural or human-caused disaster. This resource offers leaders communication strategies for the immediate aftermath of a tragedy as well as throughout the recovery process. The list of common symptoms of grief can also help leaders provide support and plan recovery activities. The National Coalition for Sexual Health developed this tip sheet on COVID-19 for youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The tip sheet explains how LGBTQ+ youth could contract the virus, suggests ways to keep relationships strong during the pandemic, and offers information on accessing gender-affirming healthcare services. This toolkit presents an overview of social media platforms, information about developing social media posts, and key communication considerations by phase of disaster. It also shares lessons learned and guidance on developing a social media policy and plan. This web page features a downloadable guide and additional resources to help with hurricane preparedness for individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or members of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups. The seven-page guide includes a checklist and things to think about as you plan, such as creating an evacuation plan and preparing a grab-and-go box. This report examines existing statistics and knowledge of mass violence events to analyze the impacts of these incidents and provide recommendations for ensuring effective preparedness and response. Created for federal, state, and local organizations, this resource aims to provide a wide range of information and strategies to mitigate the impacts of mass violence events. This web page is dedicated to helping transgender people and their families stay safe from storms and any issues they may face during an evacuation. It lists items to include in an emergency kit, as well as emergency contact information for transgender discrimination in shelters and services. This web page focuses on the enforcement and prevention of hate crimes. It includes news and events related to hate crimes, grant opportunities, information regarding laws and policies related to hate crimes, national and state statistics, and a space for users to report a hate crime. This web page explores the importance of identity and cultural dimension in the relationship among patients and their mental healthcare providers. It provides strategies and guidance for mental healthcare providers seeking to create a welcoming, culturally competent healthcare environment through which patients can receive effective healing or recovery. Created for journalists and other media representatives, this guidebook provides background information about disaster response and causes, including analysis concerning the effects of climate change on extreme disasters. It highlights the importance and responsibility of the media in disaster reporting and risk reduction for the public. OutCare has compiled a list of healthcare resources in all 50 states for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority communities (LGBTQ+). At this web page, you can find a list of available mental health services, shelters, support groups, and more in your state. This hotline from SAGE was developed specifically for older adults who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The hotline is available 24/7 in English and Spanish, with translation in 180 languages. Responders are certified in crisis response and can provide information about community support resources. The Trevor Project is a suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization that provides 24/7/365 information and support to young people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. Trained counselors are available through call, text, or chat for individuals needing support through a difficult time. This website provides an overview of suicide in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities and presents information and resources for providers, patients, and people interested in helping prevent suicide and promote behavioral health among AI/AN communities. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. The American Association of Suicidology maintains a collection of online toolkits and briefs that cover a breadth of topics related to suicide. Materials cover topics such as engaging the media as a partner in prevention, suicide prevention for the military, crisis support for people with autism, and tools for survivors. In this 2-hour course, public health professionals will learn about common individual and group reactions to disasters, crisis communication principles, and ways communications can support public mental health after a disaster. The course also covers disaster mental health myths likely to appear in media coverage of the disaster and its aftermath. Users must create an account through Tulane’s learning management system to complete the course.