Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page features a compilation of resources that explore individual and community health disparities and tools for improving healthcare access for affected populations. It includes background information regarding systemic racism and health inequities and provides resources that offer best practices for providing accessible and competent care. This web page explores behavioral health equity and its importance in reducing health disparities and promoting the provision of high-quality healthcare services for all. It features several populations of focus, including American Indians/Alaska Natives, Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and more, to emphasize the need for equitable and accessible health care. This fact sheet highlights the prevalence of suicide among Black and African American communities. It includes information regarding the impact of historical trauma and COVID-19 on mental health, the role of stigma in African American communities, and lack of access to mental health services. Resources to promote mental well-being are also provided. This web page explores community violence data, including data surrounding youth and vulnerable populations, to highlight the important preventive strategies communities can pursue. It provides community members with resources, including databases and technical guides, to encourage the continued collection of data and strategies for building community resilience. Few public safety personnel are adequately trained to implement drug misuse prevention programs in communities of people who are Black, Indigenous, or other people of color. This resource is an environmental scan including a literature review, 11 key informant interviews, and two roundtable discussions. This guide offers information and suggestions to help emergency managers, planners, and responders include individuals with disabilities in disaster planning and preparedness, response, and recovery. It identifies the effects of human-caused disasters, such as terrorist events, on the disability community to encourage effective and inclusive disaster planning. The goal of this tip sheet is to provide guidance to managers regarding their role in workplace recovery following a disaster. Tips address taking care of the team and the workplace environment during the recovery process. This tip sheet describes how people with serious mental illness may experience and respond to disasters. It identifies ways in which people with serious mental illness are more vulnerable than others in disasters and problems they may face. It also offers tips for disaster planners and responders for helping people with serious mental illness and their families with disaster planning and in the aftermath of a disaster. A ministry of The United Methodist Church, UMCOR provides disaster relief, disaster response training, supplies, physical and behavioral health support, and other services in the United States and around the world. In this tip sheet, NDIN discusses the need for religious leaders to accommodate the needs of vulnerable populations during the disaster preparedness and response effort. The tip sheet identifies several vulnerable populations and presents preparedness and response best practices to assist individuals within these populations. OSHA ensures safe and healthful working conditions by setting and enforcing standards, and by providing training, outreach, and education. This section of the OSHA website provides information and resources related to bioterrorism. This web page offers free e-learning programs that healthcare providers can pursue to learn more about culturally and linguistically appropriate services. Designed for alcohol and drug counselors, nurses, psychologists, social workers, and more, the course helps users practice culturally competent and sensitive services to reduce health disparities. This web page explains National Standards for Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services (CLAS), which promote the advancement of health equity and service quality while combating health disparities. It links to an e-learning program that can be taken to build CLAS skills and support health equity in healthcare services. This center aims to support the implementation and development of culturally and linguistically competent healthcare systems for diverse populations. It provides tools for systems of care to pursue a self-assessment and determine possibilities for improvement, as well as resources for becoming an equitable public health service provider. This training prepares participants to serve as Wellness Coaches, improving behavioral health outcomes for themselves and others in Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) communities. Supported and funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the training highlights the prevalence of health disparities due to language and cultural barriers and explains how to engage in wellness coaching. This center aims to improve behavioral health services and opportunities for Hispanic and Latino populations. The center pursues public health education efforts and collaborates with partner organizations to encourage discussion around advancing patient advocacy for Hispanic patients receiving physical and mental healthcare services. OutCare has compiled a list of healthcare resources in all 50 states for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority communities (LGBTQ+). At this web page, you can find a list of available mental health services, shelters, support groups, and more in your state. In this hour-long webinar, speakers present findings from a study that found disparate impacts of disasters on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) communities. The webinar explores disaster impacts and how intersections of identity can increase vulnerability. It also includes policy recommendations. This review article explores how systemic bias against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) people combines with other types of vulnerability to make it difficult for people in the LGBTQ+ community to access disaster relief programs and services. The article offers policy recommendations to improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ people through all phases of disaster.