Banner Title Additional Resources for Older Adults Intro Find more resources for Older Adults. Need Help? If you or someone you know is struggling or in crisis, help is available. Call or text 988 or chat 988lifeline.org. - To learn how to get support for mental health, drug, and alcohol issues, visit FindSupport.gov. - To locate treatment facilities or providers, visit FindTreatment.gov or call SAMHSA’s National Helpline at 800-662-HELP (4357). - Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity Watch a video on providing equitable and affirming care to LGBTQ+ older adults (6 minutes, 37 seconds). Access webinars - Find more LGBTQ+ resources - Suicide Prevention Resource Center (SPRC) Suicide Prevention Resource Center (SPRC) Read the “Reducing Loneliness and Social Isolation among Older Adults” fact sheet. Access fact sheets - Find more SPRC resources - additional resources National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors (NASMHPD) Resources NASMHPD Webinars for Older Adults - Improving Community Options for Older Adults (working paper) - The Impact of the Older Adult Mental Health Workforce Shortage on the Public Mental Health System (report) (PDF | 542 KB) - Weaving a Community Safety Net to Prevent Older Adult Suicide (PDF | 1.1 MB) - Older Adults Peer Support: Finding a Source for Funding (PDF | 1.4 MB) - E4 Center of Excellence for Behavioral Health Disparities in Aging Resources E4Center Webinars for Older Adults - Speak Up to Reduce Stigma! - Utilizing Cross-Sector Partnerships to Reduce Behavioral Health Disparities in Older Adults Toolkit - Serious Mental Illness Evidence-Based Treatment Program Materials - COVID-19, Mental Health, and Aging (PDF | 542 KB) - Work Examining Diverse Groups and Promoting Cultural Competence (PDF | 321 KB) - Substance use and Misuse among Older Adults (PDF | 364 KB) - Suicide among Older Adults (PDF | 435 KB) - Older Veterans Mental Health Resources VA provides a range of mental health programs and resources for Veterans of all ages, backgrounds, and service eras. Here are just a few programs that focus on the needs of older Veterans. Older Veteran Behavioral Health Resource Inventory (PDF | 1.7 MB) This inventory was developed to help health and social service professionals enhance their outreach and support for older Veterans who have, or are at risk for, behavioral health conditions. It may also be helpful for Veterans and their family members who are interested in details about various programs and benefits. - Last Updated Last Updated: 04/12/2024