Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page presents resources from SAMHSA and other organizations related to mental health and substance use in people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority populations. The web page identifies SAMHSA programs and initiatives, SAMHSA resources, and other federal resources. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a therapeutic encounter between a transgender teenager and a mental health professional in which they discuss difficulties the youth has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course follows the presentation with a reflection on the encounter, as well as a post-presentation and evaluation test. To complete the course, users must create an account with the NCTSN Learning Center. The National Coalition for Sexual Health developed this tip sheet on COVID-19 for youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The tip sheet explains how LGBTQ+ youth could contract the virus, suggests ways to keep relationships strong during the pandemic, and offers information on accessing gender-affirming healthcare services. This web page features a downloadable guide and additional resources to help with hurricane preparedness for individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or members of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups. The seven-page guide includes a checklist and things to think about as you plan, such as creating an evacuation plan and preparing a grab-and-go box. This article details the unique problems facing individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) living in temporary shelters due to natural disasters. It discusses factors that public health officials should consider when interacting with the community, the dangers members of this community may face while in a shelter, and steps that local health departments can take to be of better assistance. This resource highlights the importance of disaster services that include and account for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, and two-spirit (LGBTQI2-S) community. It identifies barriers the LGBTQI2-S community may face, ways disaster planners and responders can mitigate or address these barriers, and tips for finding and using a person’s preferred pronouns. This 24-minute video serves as an introduction to the various needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth who have experienced trauma. It pairs with a discussion guide on how providers can use the video to promote awareness and develop more inclusive environments (https://www.nctsn.org/resources/safe-places-safe-spaces-creating-welcoming-and-inclusive-environments-traumatized-lgbtq). This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but an NCTSN Learning Center account must be created to access it. This manual presents an adaptation of Psychological First Aid for professionals working with youth experiencing homelessness. It explores childhood trauma and offers strategies for establishing engagement, offering practical assistance, and creating a safe space. The manual includes worksheets and examples to refer to when offering services. This web page is dedicated to helping transgender people and their families stay safe from storms and any issues they may face during an evacuation. It lists items to include in an emergency kit, as well as emergency contact information for transgender discrimination in shelters and services. It is important for health centers to prepare for emergencies by considering the various needs of vulnerable populations, including LGBT individuals. This tip sheet provides suggestions for creating an inclusive environment, training staff, including this population in emergency preparedness planning, and more. This tip sheet discusses how religious leaders can best serve their communities after a disaster by respectfully focusing on every survivor’s needs. It defines sexual orientation and gender identity, suggests ways to prepare for disasters, and identifies unique challenges LGBT people face in disasters. This article describes the impacts disasters may have on people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). It highlights ways the LGBTQ+ community may be more vulnerable than the general public during and after disaster, as well as steps funding and other organizations can take to improve various situations for the LGBTQ+ community. The Trevor Project is a suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization that provides 24/7/365 information and support to young people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. Trained counselors are available through call, text, or chat for individuals needing support through a difficult time. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. This webinar can help professionals learn how to better work with youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). It teaches how to adjust care to provide a safe space for LGBTQ individuals who are dealing with trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. This six-module course is designed to help mental health and substance use disorder treatment professionals improve services for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). Modules focus on understanding the unique needs of this population, working with transgender people, and more.