Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page presents resources from SAMHSA and other organizations related to mental health and substance use in people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority populations. The web page identifies SAMHSA programs and initiatives, SAMHSA resources, and other federal resources. This 6-minute video reviews important terminology to be aware of when working with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. Designed for mental health professionals, this course features a video showing a therapeutic encounter with a transgender youth discussing the difficulties he has faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The course includes a video of therapy, followed by reflections by expert commentators. The course does not cost money to complete, but people must create a National Child Traumatic Stress Network Learning Center account to access it. This 6-minute video reviews important terminology to be aware of when working with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. This web page shares guidelines to help evacuation shelters ensure their space is safe for transgender people. These guidelines include respecting a person’s self-identification and responding to inappropriate behavior or harassment. This web page explores the importance of identity and cultural dimension in the relationship among patients and their mental healthcare providers. It provides strategies and guidance for mental healthcare providers seeking to create a welcoming, culturally competent healthcare environment through which patients can receive effective healing or recovery. This web page highlights research regarding the health of different populations, including Black/African American, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian American, Hispanic, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander populations. It explores the general populations’ mental health statuses, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around mental health. This web page provides mental health information and resources for multiple populations including populations of people who are Black, Indigenous, and/or people of color (BIPOC). It explores the unique impacts of mental health issues and services on BIPOC communities, highlighting the importance of culturally competent care. This tip sheet covers how transgender people can face difficulties in safely getting to shelters in an emergency situation because of discrimination. Disaster workers can use these tips to ensure everyone affected by an emergency evacuation receives quality help. This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but a National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center account must be created to access it. This seven-page publication was developed for local, state, federal, and community organizations providing services after a disaster. It aims to help organizations develop policies and train staff and volunteers to appropriately and effectively serve members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community during and after a disaster. It is important for health centers to prepare for emergencies by considering the various needs of vulnerable populations, including LGBT individuals. This tip sheet provides suggestions for creating an inclusive environment, training staff, including this population in emergency preparedness planning, and more. Transgender and gender non-conforming individuals may face discrimination when seeking shelter during an emergency. This guide can help shelters strengthen their anti-discrimination policy and develop more inclusive policy standards for staff and residents. The guide has a glossary of terms and definitions and sample documents. This tip sheet discusses how religious leaders can best serve their communities after a disaster by respectfully focusing on every survivor’s needs. It defines sexual orientation and gender identity, suggests ways to prepare for disasters, and identifies unique challenges LGBT people face in disasters. This article describes the impacts disasters may have on people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). It highlights ways the LGBTQ+ community may be more vulnerable than the general public during and after disaster, as well as steps funding and other organizations can take to improve various situations for the LGBTQ+ community. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. This webinar can help professionals learn how to better work with youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). It teaches how to adjust care to provide a safe space for LGBTQ individuals who are dealing with trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. This six-module course is designed to help mental health and substance use disorder treatment professionals improve services for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or members of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). Modules focus on understanding the unique needs of this population, working with transgender people, and more.