Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. In this article, researchers describe their work to involve children in emergency management to ensure culturally sensitive disaster programming and better policy. They describe how they have involved children of many cultures in creative projects, which were used to convey key insights to policymakers and inform more culturally aware and sensitive policy development. This article details the unique problems facing individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) living in temporary shelters due to natural disasters. It discusses factors that public health officials should consider when interacting with the community, the dangers members of this community may face while in a shelter, and steps that local health departments can take to be of better assistance. This article describes research on the process and effects of merging, after Hurricane Sandy, of substance use disorder treatment programs in New York City to ensure continuity of care. Investigators interviewed healthcare practitioners in the programs to understand challenges and measures they took that proved successful in terms of patient retention and both patient and staff health and well-being following the hurricane. This journal article explores the issues that occur when medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorder is disrupted by a disaster. Through interviews with health professionals and emergency managers, it identifies the elements that should be included in disaster planning in relation to medication-assisted treatment. This study investigated experiences of people in a treatment program for dependence on opioids (e.g., heroin, Vicodin, OxyContin) in New York City around the time of Hurricane Sandy. Findings highlight how programs and individuals can and do adapt during hurricanes and other disasters to ensure ongoing management of addictions. This review article explores how systemic bias against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) people combines with other types of vulnerability to make it difficult for people in the LGBTQ+ community to access disaster relief programs and services. The article offers policy recommendations to improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ people through all phases of disaster.