Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This guide delves into the history of anti-Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) hate, examining the historical trauma resulting from such events and leading to the rise of anti-AAPI hate crimes during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. This resource from FEMA provides culturally competent and tribal-focused guidance for tribal governments seeking assistance pursuing disaster response and recovery planning. Designed for tribal government leadership and stakeholders, the guide includes steps for designing disaster plans that meet the unique needs of a tribal community. This web page from FEMA provides information regarding disaster planning and recovery for tribal governments in collaboration with federal and state emergency management agencies. It includes guidance for tribal governments interested in seeking assistance after receiving a disaster declaration, background information on FEMA tribal policies, and tools for pursuing disaster planning, mitigation, and funding assistance. Part of the U.S. Climate Resilience Toolkit from the U.S. Global Change Research Program, this page compiles information from across the U.S. federal government regarding the impact of climate change on tribal nations. It includes research regarding climate change weather-related events and their impact on traditional ways of tribal life. This web page from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services provides guidance for American Indian and Alaska Native people seeking behavioral health information and support. It explains the importance of behavioral health and provides tools for users to learn about substance use disorders, explore tribal behavioral health coverage, and prepare for a behavioral health appointment. This web page features a compilation of resources that explore individual and community health disparities and tools for improving healthcare access for affected populations. It includes background information regarding systemic racism and health inequities and provides resources that offer best practices for providing accessible and competent care. This web page explores behavioral health equity and its importance in reducing health disparities and promoting the provision of high-quality healthcare services for all. It features several populations of focus, including American Indians/Alaska Natives, Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and more, to emphasize the need for equitable and accessible health care. Through this center, SAMHSA provides training and technical assistance to American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities, tribal SAMHSA grantees, and individuals and organizations who work with AI/AN people. Topics include mental health promotion, suicide prevention, and mental and substance use disorders. The center’s website provides information and links to print materials, websites, and webinars. This page provides a frequently updated listing of mental and behavioral health service professionals that offer services for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AANHPIs). The listing includes practitioners throughout the United States, including information such as language options, contact information, and addresses. This article provides self-care tips for Black families, recognizing the unique challenges they face due to racism. The article emphasizes the importance of checking in with family members to identify and address stress related to racial violence. This article from the website of KQED, a public media organization, defines hate crimes and hate incidents, suggests steps to take if experiencing or witnessing a hate crime, and discusses documenting and reporting hate crimes. The article also offers mental health information and resources for people who have experienced a hate crime or other incident involving racism and prejudice. This blog post from Equal Justice Works explores opportunities for tribal communities to receive disaster planning and response aid from federal and state agencies. It provides background information regarding the federal recognition of tribal sovereignty and explores legislature and policies tribal communities can benefit from to ensure effective disaster preparedness and recovery. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. This article highlights a 2021 study that explored the public health impact of anti-Black or racial violence. It describes the study’s findings, which showed that African Americans experience poor mental health in the short term after experiencing or observing anti-Black violence. This web page highlights the importance of practicing cultural respect when providing health services. It promotes resources healthcare providers can use to practice cultural respect and pursue culturally competent services in their practices, noting that cultural respect facilitates the provision, acceptance, and success of health treatments. This American Psychological Association web page details the impact racial stress can have on physical and emotional well-being. The article further highlights the effects racial stress can have on parenting, and how to combat its effects by practicing self-care. This article highlights the importance of discussing racial incidents with children. The article outlines suggestions to help parents and guardians have conversations with their children and monitor children’s emotions toward such incidents. This web page shares guidelines to help evacuation shelters ensure their space is safe for transgender people. These guidelines include respecting a person’s self-identification and responding to inappropriate behavior or harassment. This article describes the impacts disasters may have on people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). It highlights ways the LGBTQ+ community may be more vulnerable than the general public during and after disaster, as well as steps funding and other organizations can take to improve various situations for the LGBTQ+ community. This web page provides information about the importance of considering culture as part of school-based response to crises, including disasters. It provides strategies for developing a culturally competent crisis plan and providing culturally and linguistically competent services. It also describes the role of crisis response teams and why it is important to include cultural brokers in crisis response planning and implementation. This web page describes the importance of cultural awareness when providing services for children, families, and communities that have experienced trauma. It provides an introduction to the topic and links to several resources related to trauma and culture. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community. This website provides an overview of suicide in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities and presents information and resources for providers, patients, and people interested in helping prevent suicide and promote behavioral health among AI/AN communities. This website outlines the warning signs of problems with substance use and the various protective factors that help people avoid substance use and misuse. The page also links to health services for people affected by substance use.