Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page explores behavioral health equity and its importance in reducing health disparities and promoting the provision of high-quality healthcare services for all. It features several populations of focus, including American Indians/Alaska Natives, Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and more, to emphasize the need for equitable and accessible health care. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. This web page focuses on the enforcement and prevention of hate crimes. It includes news and events related to hate crimes, grant opportunities, information regarding laws and policies related to hate crimes, national and state statistics, and a space for users to report a hate crime. This web page explores the importance of identity and cultural dimension in the relationship among patients and their mental healthcare providers. It provides strategies and guidance for mental healthcare providers seeking to create a welcoming, culturally competent healthcare environment through which patients can receive effective healing or recovery. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community.