Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. The National Coalition for Sexual Health developed this tip sheet on COVID-19 for youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). The tip sheet explains how LGBTQ+ youth could contract the virus, suggests ways to keep relationships strong during the pandemic, and offers information on accessing gender-affirming healthcare services. This web page features a downloadable guide and additional resources to help with hurricane preparedness for individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or members of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups. The seven-page guide includes a checklist and things to think about as you plan, such as creating an evacuation plan and preparing a grab-and-go box. This web page is dedicated to helping transgender people and their families stay safe from storms and any issues they may face during an evacuation. It lists items to include in an emergency kit, as well as emergency contact information for transgender discrimination in shelters and services. The Trevor Project is a suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization that provides 24/7/365 information and support to young people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, agender, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups. Trained counselors are available through call, text, or chat for individuals needing support through a difficult time. People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+) may be at heightened risk for suicide and other mental health struggles, which can be made worse by a disaster. The Lifeline provides access to crisis counselors 24/7 to anyone who needs support. This page lists resources for anyone who is LGBTQ+ or knows someone in the LGBTQ+ community.