Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This playlist from the Capacity Building Center for Tribes includes five recorded webinars focused on tribal trauma and resilience. Each webinar focuses on different factors that affect tribal mental and behavioral health, including protective community factors, historic trauma, trauma-informed child welfare, and secondary traumatic stress. This video features Dr. Paramjit Joshi, Chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, DC, who offers guidance for teachers and counselors in supporting children in processing and coping after a school shooting or other traumatic event. This webinar explores the importance of trauma-informed systems supporting children and families to ensure community resilience and healing. It features a state-level organization in Tennessee to provide an example of an effective trauma-informed system that highlights strategies related to organizational collaboration, framework implementation, and staff self-care. This webinar provides information regarding trauma-informed organizations responding to racial trauma to identify strategies and resources to guide organizations addressing trauma and racial inequity. It includes professionals from the field who identify examples of trauma-informed organizations and challenges identified in the field that can be addressed to ensure individual and community resilience. This webinar from the Center for Health Care Strategies explores the benefits of trauma-informed treatment and services for individuals with substance use disorder and previous or current traumatic experience. Healthcare professionals share their experiences with patients and staff in trauma-informed healthcare professional organizations, highlighting key practices that influence better outcomes for patients and staff alike. This recorded webinar from SAMHSA explores historical trauma and cultural protective factors to highlight the strength of tribal communities and possible strategies for promoting community resilience. It focuses on trauma-informed programs and projects that provide tribal communities with tools for building resiliency and revitalizing cultural protective factors. Created for healthcare professionals providing services to individuals or communities affected by disaster events, this recorded webinar explores special considerations that must be addressed for community members who have previous trauma experience or impacts and struggle with homelessness or poverty. It highlights the need for Mental Health First Aid and explores the differences between disaster trauma and other traumatic experiences. This recorded webinar explains how trauma-informed care can be implemented across large healthcare systems to effectively address patient needs, support improved health outcomes, and avoid retraumatization. Experts from the healthcare field contribute to this resource to share their experiences with trauma-informed systems and implementation processes that influence both the healthcare system and organizational culture. This 24-minute video serves as an introduction to the various needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth who have experienced trauma. It pairs with a discussion guide on how providers can use the video to promote awareness and develop more inclusive environments (https://www.nctsn.org/resources/safe-places-safe-spaces-creating-welcoming-and-inclusive-environments-traumatized-lgbtq). This recorded webinar hosted by the National Disaster Resilience Competition (NDRC) highlights the importance of resilience in disaster and climate adaptation planning and offers suggestions for ensuring efficient disaster response and recovery. It encourages participants to view climate hazards as an opportunity for expanding services and promoting community sustainability and growth. This half-hour webcast helps disaster behavioral health professionals learn about working with American Indian and Alaska Native populations before, during, and after a disaster or other traumatic event. It helps provide an understanding of cultural values shared by Native Americans, and how to work with tribes to understand their perspectives and experiences. This 1.5-hour webinar covers how to treat children who are deaf or hard of hearing, or hearing children of parents who are deaf, who have experienced trauma, including trauma linked to disaster. While the webinar is available free of charge, users need to create an account with the National Child Traumatic Stress Network Learning Center and log in to access the webinar. This webinar from the National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center outlines techniques practitioners can use for engaging families in helping to care for their children who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ) who have experienced trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. This webinar can help professionals learn how to better work with youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). It teaches how to adjust care to provide a safe space for LGBTQ individuals who are dealing with trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it.