Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page features a compilation of resources that explore individual and community health disparities and tools for improving healthcare access for affected populations. It includes background information regarding systemic racism and health inequities and provides resources that offer best practices for providing accessible and competent care. This report details the vulnerabilities people with substance use disorders faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. It provides recommendations on expanding and sustaining telehealth modalities to improve access use for people with substance use disorders during the pandemic and beyond. This report describes a study to identify promising practices for rural mental health and substance use-related programs across the United States. The report explains the importance of promising practices, defines and describes promising practices, and presents in Appendix C the programs included in the study. This document reports on the findings of a project to understand issues in mental and substance use disorder services in rural areas. It covers barriers to mental health and substance use disorder service delivery, model programs and policy strategies, and the roles of telehealth and state and local organizations in service delivery in rural communities. This web page from the Office of Minority Health highlights research regarding Asian Americans’ mental and behavioral health. It explores the general population’s mental health status, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around Asian American mental health. This web page highlights research regarding Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders’ mental and behavioral health. It explores the general population’s mental health status, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around mental health. This web page highlights research regarding the health of different populations, including Black/African American, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian American, Hispanic, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander populations. It explores the general populations’ mental health statuses, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around mental health. This center aims to support the implementation and development of culturally and linguistically competent healthcare systems for diverse populations. It provides tools for systems of care to pursue a self-assessment and determine possibilities for improvement, as well as resources for becoming an equitable public health service provider. In this hour-long webinar, speakers present findings from a study that found disparate impacts of disasters on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) communities. The webinar explores disaster impacts and how intersections of identity can increase vulnerability. It also includes policy recommendations. This review article explores how systemic bias against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) people combines with other types of vulnerability to make it difficult for people in the LGBTQ+ community to access disaster relief programs and services. The article offers policy recommendations to improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ people through all phases of disaster.