Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. Developed for institutions of higher education, this guide incorporates lessons learned from recent incidents and recommendations from experts in the field to provide guidance for emergency planners revising and updating existing emergency operations plans. This resources was jointly developed by the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Education, and Health and Human Services. This guide provides information on Psychological First Aid for Schools (PFA-S), an adaptation of the Psychological First Aid evidence-informed intervention. It provides information on how to use PFA-S to support child and adolescent students, adults, and families in the aftermath of a school crisis, disaster, or terrorism event. This resource highlights the importance of disaster services that include and account for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, and two-spirit (LGBTQI2-S) community. It identifies barriers the LGBTQI2-S community may face, ways disaster planners and responders can mitigate or address these barriers, and tips for finding and using a person’s preferred pronouns. This briefing paper discusses the January 12, 2010, earthquake that occurred in Haiti and how it affected Haitians who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT). This disaster further marginalized vulnerable populations that received insufficient help. The end of this paper includes a checklist for governments and international agencies to include people who are LGBT in their disaster planning. This manual presents an adaptation of Psychological First Aid for professionals working with youth experiencing homelessness. It explores childhood trauma and offers strategies for establishing engagement, offering practical assistance, and creating a safe space. The manual includes worksheets and examples to refer to when offering services. In this hour-long webinar, speakers present findings from a study that found disparate impacts of disasters on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) communities. The webinar explores disaster impacts and how intersections of identity can increase vulnerability. It also includes policy recommendations. This seven-page publication was developed for local, state, federal, and community organizations providing services after a disaster. It aims to help organizations develop policies and train staff and volunteers to appropriately and effectively serve members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community during and after a disaster. This webinar from the National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center outlines techniques practitioners can use for engaging families in helping to care for their children who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ) who have experienced trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. This webinar can help professionals learn how to better work with youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). It teaches how to adjust care to provide a safe space for LGBTQ individuals who are dealing with trauma. The webinar is available free of charge, but people must create an NCTSN Learning Center account to access it. Transgender and gender non-conforming individuals may face discrimination when seeking shelter during an emergency. This guide can help shelters strengthen their anti-discrimination policy and develop more inclusive policy standards for staff and residents. The guide has a glossary of terms and definitions and sample documents.