Disaster Behavioral Health Information Series Resource Center The SAMHSA Disaster Technical Assistance Center (DTAC) provides various resources and useful information for those in the disaster behavioral health field. All resources for which links are provided are in the public domain or have been authorized for noncommercial use. Hardcopies of some materials may be ordered. If you use content from resources in this collection in program materials, you should acknowledge the source of the materials. Did you know you can download your search results? Simply apply search filters and then click on the Download Filtered Resources link to obtain a .csv file with the resources you have found, including each resource’s name, description, date, URL, and source. This web page presents resources from SAMHSA and other organizations related to mental health and substance use in people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority populations. The web page identifies SAMHSA programs and initiatives, SAMHSA resources, and other federal resources. This web page is dedicated to resources for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, or part of other sexual orientation or gender identity minority groups (LGBTQI+). The page also features resources for people serving LGBTQI+ populations in different ways. Included are links for cultural competency trainings and resources. This article details the unique problems facing individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) living in temporary shelters due to natural disasters. It discusses factors that public health officials should consider when interacting with the community, the dangers members of this community may face while in a shelter, and steps that local health departments can take to be of better assistance. This web page shares guidelines to help evacuation shelters ensure their space is safe for transgender people. These guidelines include respecting a person’s self-identification and responding to inappropriate behavior or harassment. This briefing paper discusses the January 12, 2010, earthquake that occurred in Haiti and how it affected Haitians who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT). This disaster further marginalized vulnerable populations that received insufficient help. The end of this paper includes a checklist for governments and international agencies to include people who are LGBT in their disaster planning. This web page highlights research regarding the health of different populations, including Black/African American, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian American, Hispanic, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander populations. It explores the general populations’ mental health statuses, access to health care, and death rates to inform discussion around mental health. This web page provides mental health information and resources for multiple populations including populations of people who are Black, Indigenous, and/or people of color (BIPOC). It explores the unique impacts of mental health issues and services on BIPOC communities, highlighting the importance of culturally competent care. This tip sheet covers how transgender people can face difficulties in safely getting to shelters in an emergency situation because of discrimination. Disaster workers can use these tips to ensure everyone affected by an emergency evacuation receives quality help. In this hour-long webinar, speakers present findings from a study that found disparate impacts of disasters on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) communities. The webinar explores disaster impacts and how intersections of identity can increase vulnerability. It also includes policy recommendations. This course was developed to help professionals recognize and meet the needs of traumatized youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ). The course aims to teach about the unique needs of this population, leading to more effective treatment and better engagement. The course is available free of charge, but a National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Learning Center account must be created to access it. This review article explores how systemic bias against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other sexual orientation and gender identity minority (LGBTQ+) people combines with other types of vulnerability to make it difficult for people in the LGBTQ+ community to access disaster relief programs and services. The article offers policy recommendations to improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ people through all phases of disaster. Transgender and gender non-conforming individuals may face discrimination when seeking shelter during an emergency. This guide can help shelters strengthen their anti-discrimination policy and develop more inclusive policy standards for staff and residents. The guide has a glossary of terms and definitions and sample documents. This tip sheet discusses how religious leaders can best serve their communities after a disaster by respectfully focusing on every survivor’s needs. It defines sexual orientation and gender identity, suggests ways to prepare for disasters, and identifies unique challenges LGBT people face in disasters. This article describes the impacts disasters may have on people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, or part of other sexual orientation and gender identity minority groups (LGBTQ+). It highlights ways the LGBTQ+ community may be more vulnerable than the general public during and after disaster, as well as steps funding and other organizations can take to improve various situations for the LGBTQ+ community.