Are open to new experiences and receiving feedback Have access to a private space for remote volunteering Interested in volunteering? Thank you for your interest in becoming a Volunteer Crisis Counselor with The Trevor Project! We are excited that you are interested in supporting our mission to end suicide among LGBTQ+ young people. At this time, we have an incredibly high volume of interest, and more applications in our queue than there are spaces in upcoming training classes. In order to ensure that new applicants can have a more streamlined experience, our general volunteer Crisis Counselor application is currently unavailable. While we do not have a definitive timeline for when we will be ready to receive new applications yet, we would be excited to connect with you when the time comes. If you are interested in receiving an email from us when the application opens again, please fill out the Volunteer Crisis Counselor Interest Form. If you are a university student looking to complete a practicum as a volunteer Crisis Counselor for credit for your academic program, please complete our Contact Us form and select âUniversity Practicumâ for instructions and next steps. All other questions about volunteering can be directed to the Volunteer Recruitment team by completing the Contact Us form and selecting âVolunteering as a Crisis Counselor.â Reasons to volunteer We donât have to tell you that becoming a crisis counselor is a rewarding experience. But we will anyway. Supportive Community Network Gain â¨Important Soft Skills World-Class Crisis Intervention Training Volunteer FAQs What is the time commitment for volunteers? After completing a 40-hour training over the course of 8 weeks, volunteers must commit to a weekly 3-hour shift for a minimum of one year. What are the technical requirements for volunteers? To volunteer at Trevor, youâll need the right technology. Security, privacy, sound quality and a strong internet connection are all key elements to providing a safe and supportive experience for young people. Our technical requirements include: A personal laptop or desktop computer. Tablets, Chromebooks and cell phones are not permitted Access to a private space with a secure, private high-speed internet connection with no VPN An up-to-date operating system (such as Windows 10, MacOS Ventura, Big Sur, or Monterey, or the most recent Linux) The ability to download the latest version of Google Chrome A minimum of 5Mbps download speed, 2Mbps upload speed and an Octane score of over 30,000. You can measure your internet speedÂ hereÂ and measure your Octane scoreÂ here. Read more about all of our technology requirements here. What is the training like? Our online training consists of 40+ hours of combined lesson and practice content, with self-paced modules covering counseling skills, LGBTQ+ identities, our Support Model (the framework for all conversations on our crisis services platform), and relevant policies, procedures, and protocols to prepare prospective volunteers to speak with youth in crisis. Trainees will also complete a number of scheduled role-plays to apply this training material and prepare for interactions with the young people and others who reach out to our service. If trainees complete their modules and pass their evaluated roleplays, they will move on to New Counselor Shifts (NCS). NCS are a counselorâs first, highly-monitored, conversations with real contacts, during which counselors receive extra support and feedback. Trainees who complete the counselor training program and adhere to Trevorâs Support Model are moved forward to become active counselors. Do I have to be available during specific days and times for training? Much of the training can be done at your own pace and convenience.Trainees are expected to spend around 5 hours each week to meet weekly training requirements that include the completion of training modules, practice activities, and assessments, designed to reinforce the knowledge taught in the training modules. Additionally, trainees will sign up for role-plays on specific dates and times over the course of the training, where they will apply attitudes and skills taught in training to practice scenarios. Learners who do not pass a given role-play will take an enrichment role-play the following week for additional practice. Role-play scheduling slots are available between 9:00 am ET – 9:00 pm ET most days, including weekends. While you can complete your modules on your own time, roleplays will only take place during the 9:00 am ET – 9:00 pm ET time range, and will require scheduling in advance. Role-plays may take place at different times than when your actual counselor shifts will take place once you complete training. If you anticipate that you will be on vacation or unavailable for more than a week during training or 3 months after training, please contact your Volunteer Recruiter to confirm if your start date is right for you. When do volunteer shifts take place? The Trevor Project runs 24/7 crisis services for LGBTQ+ young people. This means that volunteer shifts happen all day and all night. Upon graduation from training, volunteers work with our team to be placed onto 3-hour shifts that align with their schedule and our most pressing needs. What if I want to go on vacation or something comes up and I have to miss my shift? The Trevor Project has policies to manage shift cancellations and substitutions as they are needed. However, we limit the number of shift cancellations volunteers can take, and ask that volunteers plan ahead to ensure they are generally available for shifts. The Trevor Project requires a full-year commitment for crisis services (Chat/Text/Lifeline) volunteers and generally does not accept applicants who will be outside the country for an extended period of time. Can I volunteer from anywhere? All of our volunteer opportunities are remote. Volunteers may work from anywhere in the United States (50 states and the District of Columbia), as long as they have access to a personal desktop or laptop computer, a consistent and stable server, a private and secure internet connection and a private space to respond to young people. Please note that volunteers are not able to use a school or work laptop or a public wifi connection during their volunteer shifts. At this time we are only able to have volunteers fulfill their shifts while in the United States (50 states and the District of the Columbia only) due to our background check requirements and security protocols that ensure the safety of our youth. What support will I receive as a volunteer? During training you will have support from a Training Coordinator who will support you through role-plays, provide feedback, and answer questions throughout your journey. During New Counselor Shifts, you will be monitored by a Digital or Lifeline Supervisor for your first conversations with youth. Office hours are available for volunteers interested in one-on-one support and volunteers who would like to process difficult conversations that may arise during their shift. I don’t have experience in mental health counseling. Can I still become a crisis counselor? Yes! Our trainees undergo a 40-hour virtual training to prepare them extensively for the many potential scenarios that may emerge in conversations with LGBTQ youth in crisis. Do you accept clinical field placement / practicum students as volunteers? If you are interested in volunteering with The Trevor Project to gain hours for field placement or practicum, please Contact Us and select âUniversity Practicumâ on the form.Â Â If you are a representative from a university looking to build a field placement or practicum partnership with The Trevor Project for students in your program, please Contact Us and select âUniversity Practicumâ on the form to schedule an exploratory conversation. If you are looking for a paid position at Trevor, you can explore those on our Careers page. Do you verify volunteer hours for school or court-mandated service? For standard volunteers, we are able to provide a letter of service documenting volunteer hours to active volunteers who have successfully graduated from training. These are an approximation based on a volunteerâs schedule. We also can provide a standard letter of recommendation after six months of service, which does not speak to individual performance. Both of these should be requested at least three weeks in advance. Unfortunately, due to the volume of our volunteer base, we are not able to complete specific forms for school or court for standard volunteers at this time, unless you are part of a pre-approved clinical placement or practicum program with Trevor. If you are volunteering with The Trevor Project as part of an official clinical placement or practicum partnership, your hours will be verified as part of this program. If you need verified volunteer hours as part of a course or degree requirement, please Contact Us about University Practicum before you start volunteering. Do you have any other volunteer opportunities? At this time, our only volunteer opportunities are with our TrevorChat/TrevorText and TrevorLifeline programs. How can my company get involved with The Trevor Project? Please use our Contact Us page to connect with our corporate development team, who will be able to work with you to see how your team can best support our life-saving work. I am not able to volunteer my time. How else can I get involved? Host a Fundraiser: Have a birthday coming up? Want to raise money to support The Trevor Project? Learn how to host a successful fundraiser. Donate: Your life-saving gift can help us train a record number of crisis counselors, continue to provide all of our crisis services 24/7, and expand our advocacy efforts. I already submitted my application, but havenât heard anything. What should I do? Due to the volume of applications we receive each day, we are unable to provide updates on any individual application outside of confirming it was received. It can take several months from the time of submission for an application to be reviewed. Once you submit your application, no further action is needed from you. When we have reviewed your application, our Volunteer Recruitment team will notify you of our decision. There are other ways to help. Your donation will save lives. Every day, LGBTQ+ young people reach out for mental health support. When you donate to Trevor, you ensure our volunteers can continue to be there for them. Trevor Volunteer Crisis Counselors go through a 40-hour online training over the course of 10 weeks that covers counseling skills, LGBTQ identity, the structure of a conversation on our crisis services, and relevant policies, procedures and protocols to prepare them to speak with young people in crisis who reach out on our free, confidential, and secure 24/7 services.Â Young people reach out to The Trevor Project every day for a wide variety of reasons. Some young people are in moments of imminent risk of suicide; others just need someone to talk to.Â Serious topics including suicide, self-harm, eating disorders, addiction, abuse, sexual violence, bullying, depression and other mental health crises can come up in conversation. Our team will prepare volunteers for the many potential scenarios that may emerge in conversation. Our Crisis Services We offer two remote programs volunteers can choose from: TrevorLifeline (Phone): Lifeline Volunteer Counselors are trained to answer calls from LGBTQ young people who reach out to our 24/7 phone Lifeline when they are feeling suicidal or need a safe, non-judgmental place to talk. TrevorChat/TrevorText (Digital): Digital Volunteer Crisis Counselors are trained to answer chats and texts from LGBTQ young people who reach out about issues such as coming out, LGBTQ identity, depression, and suicide. Please note that our greatest need for volunteers is currently in our TrevorChat/TrevorText Digital program. Young people are close to twice as likely to reach out to Trevorâs service on our chat/text platform.