Celebrate the Ocean Join us to celebrate and learn about our world ocean during National Ocean Month. From June 20-30, get ready to test your ocean knowledge! In honor of Pride Month, I asked Kenneth Walker from the NOAA Pride Employee Resource Group (ERG) to write a guest post this week. Before I turn the pen over to Kenneth, I wanted to talk about the Pride Month observance program that took place on Tuesday, June 15. As the executive sponsor for the NOAA Pride ERG, I had the pleasure of acting as master of ceremonies for this event. In my opening remarks, I talked about recent executive orders and other actions the administration has taken to strengthen protections and advance equity for LGTBQ+ individuals. I also discussed the new NOAA Policy on Gender Identity Protections, which advances NOAA’s goal to provide a workplace that is free from discrimination and fully inclusive of all employees. This event was one of the special emphasis programs provided by NOAA’s Office of Inclusion and Civil Rights. I encourage you to keep an eye on their calendar for additional events and ERG meetings. — Nicole Greetings Colleagues: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer or Questioning (LGBTQ+) Pride Month is a time to highlight LGBTQ+ culture, celebrate the contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals, and educate others on LGBTQ+ issues. Pride is celebrated during June to commemorate the anniversary of the 1969 Stonewall riots. Although great progress has been made, Pride celebrations bring awareness to the work that remains to be done. We remain subject to discrimination based on who we are or who we love. Being visible sometimes means being exposed to harassment, discrimination, and violence. This is particularly true for transgender people who intersect with other underrepresented communities. In the White House’s June Proclamation on LGBTQ Pride Month, 2021, President Biden said he “will not rest until full equality for LGBTQ+ Americans is finally achieved and codified into law.” As chair of the NOAA Pride ERG, I have met members of the community and their allies across the agency. It’s a diverse and talented group, and it’s given me an appreciation for all the “letters'' in LGBTQ+. What defines this incredibly diverse community is not so much a shared single identity, but a shared struggle for acceptance and equality. This year, we have seen an executive order directing federal agencies to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, another order advancing the human rights of LGBTQ+ persons worldwide, and a reversal of the ban on transgender service members. Equity and inclusion require creating an environment that recognizes and affirms people’s unique identities and fosters a sense of belonging. NOAA Pride is working to make sure the LGBTQ+ community, in all its diversity, has recruitment, retention, and advancement opportunities at NOAA. Allies are an important part of NOAA Pride, and you do not have to be a member of the LGTBQ+ community to participate. To keep up-to-date on NOAA Pride activities, visit our website and join the mailing list. For more information, contact me at kenneth.walker@noaa.gov. Steady as we go, Kenneth Walker Program Analyst Office for Coastal Management ONMS has released new wildlife viewing guidelines in English and Spanish. These simple guidelines for activities along the shore and on the water were designed in coordination with NOAA Fisheries, the Respect Wildlife campaign, the Recreate Responsibly coalition, and multiple state and federal wildlife agencies. The goal of the guidelines is to engage and educate the public on how to have an enjoyable adventure while reducing the chance of human/wildlife conflicts. Responsible recreation at national marine sanctuaries can help create awareness and promote stewardship. ONMS is encouraging the public to show their support for wildlife, and inspire others to do the same, by taking the “Wildlife Pledge.” Contact: Grace.Bottitta@noaa.gov NGS presented a technical briefing to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), describing NGS’s interest in linking state-of-the-art atomic clocks over continental distances. By creating a linked network of field-portable clocks and measuring the tiny differences in their tick rates, NGS would be able to continuously monitor real-time changes in geoid height at the 1-cm level. The presentation was part of an interagency working group formed as part of a national strategy to promote quantum information science, which combines the study of information science with quantum effects in physics. By leveraging similar, aligned interests in federal agencies, the working group is working to foster the development and application of novel quantum sensors. Contact: Derek.Vanwestrum@noaa.gov The Department of Justice entered two consent decrees valued at $9.3 million for settlement with parties responsible for hazardous waste pollution in western Port Angeles Harbor in Washington. This announcement follows the lodging of these two consent decrees in March 2021 and a public comment period. Since the early 1900s, pulp and paper mills and other industrial facilities discharged effluents into Port Angeles Harbor. These discharges have resulted in harbor sediments contaminated by heavy metals, dioxins, PCBs, and petrochemicals. These finalized settlements will be used to fund projects that restore natural resources injured by hazardous waste pollution. NOAA worked in partnership with its natural resource co-trustees, the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe, Jamestown S’Klallam Tribe, Port Gamble S’Klallam Tribe, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Washington State Department of Ecology to reach this agreement and develop restoration plans. Contact: Robert.Neely@noaa.gov CO-OPS installed 10 seasonal water level gauges in the Great Lakes that will operate from June to September in support of the International Great Lakes Datum (IGLD) update. IGLD is a common reference system used to measure water level heights throughout the Great Lakes, connecting waterways, and the St. Lawrence River System. IGLD is updated every 25-30 years. These temporary gauges will supplement the 53 permanent U.S. stations currently operating throughout the Great Lakes. Funding for these stations came from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Contact: Laura.Rear.Mclaughlin@noaa.gov The nation’s marine economy grew by 4.2% from 2018 to 2019 and supported 2.4 million jobs in 2019 — these statistics are an example of the new data available from NOAA and the Bureau of Economic Analysis. These Marine Economy Satellite Account statistics detail the economic contributions of marine-dependent businesses. They offer national estimates for ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes-related economic activity by industry, and they measure the marine economy as a percentage of the nation’s gross domestic product and total output. This is valuable information for investors and decision-makers in marine and environmental industries. Contact: Kate.Quigley@noaa.gov NCCOS collaborated with the National University of Ireland, Galway and Ireland’s Marine Institute to successfully adapt an NCCOS-employed method to monitor for harmful algal blooms (HABs) in Irish waters. The method, called the Red Band Difference algorithm, analyzes satellite imagery for the relative fluorescence of algae. It can detect blooms in surface shelf waters and help monitor their movement. The algorithm was tested in Irish waters for the first time in summer 2019, and the study was recently published in Frontiers in Marine Science. This pilot study shows great potential to use the Red Band Difference algorithm to support the existing Irish HAB alert system, improving detection and helping to mitigate HABs that threaten Irish aquaculture. Contact: Michelle.Tomlinson@noaa.gov Kenneth Walker Program Analyst Office for Coastal Management Brought to you by the NOS Communications and Education Division