November 2024Vol. 25, No. 9Sociodemographic Characteristics of LGBTQ Parents in the United States Much of the existing research on parenting benefits, challenges, and demographics is focused on cisgender, heterosexual parents. A new report expands this research by compiling data from various sources to provide a sociodemographic portrait of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer+ (LGBTQ) parents in the United States. In the report, LGBTQ Parenting in the US, the term "parent" includes any biological, adoptive, or foster parent or stepparent of a child younger than age 18 who is living in the same household. The report includes data on demographics, marriage and relationship status, economics, and family formation and stressors. The following are some of the main findings: 18 percent of LGBTQ adults are parenting children. - 35 percent of married LGBTQ adults are parenting children. - 75 percent of LGBTQ parents are cisgender bisexual women (61 percent) and lesbian women (14 percent). - Approximately 5 million children are being raised by LGBTQ adults. - Regardless of age, LGBTQ adults are less likely to be parenting than non-LGBTQ adults. - LGBTQ parents are more likely to be living in poverty than LGBTQ non-parents and straight cisgender parents. - 78 percent of LGBTQ parents became parents through current or previous sexual relationships, 20 percent as stepparents, and 6 percent through adoption. - Approximately 30 percent of LGBTQ parents are not legally recognized or are unsure of their legal status as parents. - A discussion of the findings highlights policy implications. Lower rates of parenting among LGBTQ adults compared to non-LGBTQ adults may be a result of a lack of access to opportunities and resources to become parents. This suggests there is a need to address barriers to accessing reproductive technology and adoption services. Economic instability points to the need for policies and services that address economic inequities. There is also a need to recognize parental rights among LGBTQ parents, especially for those in same-sex couples who are not biologically related to their children. Explore the full report for more information about the demographics and characteristics of LGBTQ parents as well as policy and research implications.