LGBTQI+ Community Members and Disaster Preparedness and Response Topic Collection June 6, 2024 Topic Collection: LGBTQI+ Community Members and Disaster Preparedness and Response Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+) communities continue to be disproportionately affected by disasters and mass casualty incidents (MCIs) because of preexisting disparities, historical marginalization, and discrimination. To combat these disparities, emergency planners can incorporate LGBTQI+ people into planning processes and include LGBTQI+ measures in health surveillance. LGBTQI+ community support is an important driver of better outcomes after a disaster. With this in mind, local, state, and federal responders can consider partnering with local LGBTQ+ organizations to ensure LGBTQI+ people are meaningfully included in health care and the highest standards of culturally competent care are provided in all settings. Emergency shelters can provide safe and accessible environments that serve the whole community, including LGBTQI+ people by adopting nondiscrimination policies, making gender-neutral bathrooms available, using correct names and pronouns, and prioritizing privacy and confidentiality where possible. LGBTQI+ people are in all communities, at all ages. Planners might therefore consider how LGBTQI+ resources and policy considerations can be integrated into population specific planning efforts, such as planning efforts that focus on older adults or children, youth, and families. This Topic Collection (TC) includes resources for LGBTQI+ individuals; lessons learned from recent public health emergencies, MCIs, and natural disasters; tools for planning; resources for emergency planners and health care providers; and resources specific to behavioral health. Stakeholders may wish to access the following related TCs: Climate Change and Healthcare System Considerations, Disasters and Health Care Disparity and Populations with Access and Functional Needs. Each resource in this TC is placed into one or more of the following categories (click on the category name to be taken directly to that set of resources). Resources marked with an asterisk (*) appear in more than one category. Must Reads FEMA’s 2020 annual National Preparedness Report identified communities of color, single parents, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people as being at the highest risk or more severely impacted during disasters. The information and resources included on this web page can help emergency planners and shelter providers create a more inclusive environment after a disaster occurs. The webpage also includes information on disaster preparedness for individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article This recorded episode illustrates how Howard Brown Health, an organization which provides care for the LGBTQ+ community in Chicago, did so during the Mpox outbreak. It includes information on infection control practices and treatment of suspected and confirmed Mpox cases. Login to favorite or comment on the article This page can help emergency planners ensure their work is inclusive and supportive of the LGBTQ+ community. Their overall website includes updates on recent disasters and educational resources that focus on preparedness, philanthropy, response and recovery. Login to favorite or comment on the article Speakers in these roundtable discussions covered topics such as existing activities that incorporate LGBTQ+ considerations into disaster preparedness, gaps, and solutions for addressing them. Access the second roundtable here: https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-community-disasters-preparedness-and-mitigation-considerations Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors discuss how discrimination can make recovery especially difficult for the LGBTQ+ community after disasters. They recommend updating the 1988 Stafford Act to explicitly cover sexual orientation and gender identity, which would expand on its existing requirement to protect people regardless of sex. They also recommend nondiscrimination policies for disaster shelters and establishment of a federal LGBTQ+ Equity Taskforce spanning agencies to create inclusive policies for local, state, and federal government. Login to favorite or comment on the article This policy brief describes the impact of disasters on the LGBTQ+ community, especially focusing on legal, physical, and psychological impacts. Key findings include: federal disaster preparedness and response programs may be inequitable, LGBTQ+ families are often unrecognized in plans and policies, and faith-based organizations providing disaster relief may put LGBTQ+ people in a vulnerable position. Login to favorite or comment on the article Emergency planners can use this resource to learn more about developing culturally sensitive policies that serve members of the LGBT community in a disaster. It includes a one page cultural competence guide that can be disseminated just before or after a disaster. Login to favorite or comment on the article This resource can help disaster aid workers provide a safe, non-discriminatory shelter environment for evacuees. It includes tips for interacting with and providing safety and security to transgender evacuees. Login to favorite or comment on the article The speakers discuss marginalization of the LGBTQ+ community during disasters, especially in the context of climate change. Disaster plans which do not incorporate considerations for LGBTQ+ communities may exacerbate the trauma of a disaster (e.g., injury, loss of loved ones, or loss of possessions). The speakers recommend inclusion and funding of LGBTQ+ people in preparedness policy, while also maintaining grassroots engagement among community members. Login to favorite or comment on the article This article summarizes Leighton Jones’ (an Emergency Preparedness Research, Evaluation & Practice Program Senior Program Manager at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health) presentation at the 2019 Preparedness Summit. Jones covered challenges associated with shelter needs and strategies for engaging the LGBT community in community disaster preparedness. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author included 35 full-text, peer reviewed publications in this literature review to understand how disasters affect marginalized communities, including those identifying as LGBTQ+. The author recommends political and educational reforms to improve disaster response for these communities, an increase in research funding, training for emergency service personnel in cultural competency, and emphasizes the importance of community mutual aid. Login to favorite or comment on the article The report synthesizes presentations from two 2023 webinars and provides recommendations for how emergency responders and faith-based organizations can incorporate LGBTQIA+ considerations in all phases of emergency management. Login to favorite or comment on the article To improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ communities during emergencies such as COVID-19, the authors of this article recommend improving cultural training for health professionals, increasing LGBTQ+ measures when conducting health surveillance, researching the impact of COVID on these populations, and introducing equity initiatives in emergency plans. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors provide an overview of the challenges and “policy blind spots” associated with disaster preparedness and LGBTQIA+ people. This is followed by recommendations and case studies on outreach and community engagement, establishing safe spaces, mental health support, recognizing capabilities, and training. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors reviewed literature to better understand perceived safety among LGBTQ+ individuals after the Pulse nightclub shooting, including differences based on race/ethnicity, gender identity, and sexual orientation. The results show that individuals from more marginalized identities within the LGBTQ+ community had more safety concerns than those with relatively more privileged identities. Safety concerns could worsen stress, which in turn can lead to poor health outcomes. The authors emphasize the importance of health care providers being trained to work with LGBTQ+ people, providing appropriate care, and giving counselling referrals to improve the sense of safety in this population. Login to favorite or comment on the article This report provides behavioral health providers, researchers, policymakers, and others with an overview of LGBTQI+ youth and related general research and information specific to this community’s behavioral health concerns. It also includes evidence-informed policy options designed to improve LGBTQI+ youth overall health. Login to favorite or comment on the article Education and Training This suite of e-learning modules can help both clinical and non-clinical staff serve LGBTQI+ people in health care settings. Modules cover providing services in a safe environment, engagement strategies, and using the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (created in collaboration with Vibrant Health). Login to favorite or comment on the article Speakers in these roundtable discussions covered topics such as existing activities that incorporate LGBTQ+ considerations into disaster preparedness, gaps, and solutions for addressing them. Access the second roundtable here: https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-community-disasters-preparedness-and-mitigation-considerations Login to favorite or comment on the article This one-hour course will help participants define "diversity," describe the benefits of diversity, learn FEMA's Vision of Diversity and more about the agency's commitment to diversity, understand how culture influences our interactions with others, and understand how to take actions that can optimize diversity. Login to favorite or comment on the article This one-hour course can help participants identify the purpose of the FEMA Civil Rights program and the protections it offers and identify strategies to ensure the civil rights of FEMA customers. Login to favorite or comment on the article This free six-hour cultural competency curriculum provides continuing education training for nurses and other healthcare professionals who serve older LGBTQ adults. It is available in English and Spanish. Login to favorite or comment on the article The speakers discuss marginalization of the LGBTQ+ community during disasters, especially in the context of climate change. Disaster plans which do not incorporate considerations for LGBTQ+ communities may exacerbate the trauma of a disaster (e.g., injury, loss of loved ones, or loss of possessions). The speakers recommend inclusion and funding of LGBTQ+ people in preparedness policy, while also maintaining grassroots engagement among community members. Login to favorite or comment on the article This tip sheet defines sexual orientation and gender identity and provides strategies that can help planners address some of the unique challenges faced by LGBT people in shelters. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage provides links to trainings and tools for healthcare professionals who work with the LGBT population. Topics include substance abuse treatment, communication tools, and cultural competency. Login to favorite or comment on the article General Resources FEMA’s 2020 annual National Preparedness Report identified communities of color, single parents, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people as being at the highest risk or more severely impacted during disasters. The information and resources included on this web page can help emergency planners and shelter providers create a more inclusive environment after a disaster occurs. The webpage also includes information on disaster preparedness for individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021). Supporting LGBTQ Youth. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This website contains general resources for LGBTQ+ young people, which may facilitate healing among the community after mass trauma events. The webpage links to resources for LGBTQ+ youth and supporters, educators and school administrators, and family members. Login to favorite or comment on the article Though based on experiences shared by LGBTQ+ people living in Australia and New Zealand, the findings are universal: these community members often have a very different experience after disaster strikes. The author lists various reasons behind this challenge (e.g., not being fully out at the time of the incident, fear of relationship not being accepted by mainstream support providers, and unwelcome spaces). Login to favorite or comment on the article This website highlights a 2021 executive order which defined equity and underserved to include communities of LGBTQ+ people. The site includes information on why underserved communities are disproportionately impacted by disasters, and how tailored solutions are needed to address each community’s context. Login to favorite or comment on the article Speakers in these roundtable discussions covered topics such as existing activities that incorporate LGBTQ+ considerations into disaster preparedness, gaps, and solutions for addressing them. Access the second roundtable here: https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-community-disasters-preparedness-and-mitigation-considerations Login to favorite or comment on the article This document contains information on how people in the LGBTQ+ community are affected by displacement due to a disaster. It includes information on national and state-level disaster displacement, disaster type, and adverse experiences such as food or water insecurity, lack of electricity, or lack of sanitary conditions. The appendix also includes a table of percent of LGBTQ+ people displaced per state. Login to favorite or comment on the article This list of resources from GLAAD links to websites encouraging resilience among LGBTQ+ people, under the headings of political, bisexual, youth, military, transgender, aging, legal, and general resources. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors discuss how discrimination can make recovery especially difficult for the LGBTQ+ community after disasters. They recommend updating the 1988 Stafford Act to explicitly cover sexual orientation and gender identity, which would expand on its existing requirement to protect people regardless of sex. They also recommend nondiscrimination policies for disaster shelters and establishment of a federal LGBTQ+ Equity Taskforce spanning agencies to create inclusive policies for local, state, and federal government. Login to favorite or comment on the article This policy brief describes the impact of disasters on the LGBTQ+ community, especially focusing on legal, physical, and psychological impacts. Key findings include: federal disaster preparedness and response programs may be inequitable, LGBTQ+ families are often unrecognized in plans and policies, and faith-based organizations providing disaster relief may put LGBTQ+ people in a vulnerable position. Login to favorite or comment on the article Founded in 1973, Lambda Legal defends the rights of the LGBTQ+ community and people living with HIV, creates educational programs to expand awareness and build support, and advocates for public policy to challenge anti-LGBTQ+ bias. Login to favorite or comment on the article This report draws from the history of community support during the early emergence of HIV, noting that organizations like Act-Up were assisting LGBTQ+ community members before institutions were. The author draws parallels between those services, pandemic preparedness, and other hazards that disproportionately affect LGBTQ+ communities. Login to favorite or comment on the article This tipsheet can help members of the LGBTQ+ community stay informed, develop an emergency preparedness checklist and supply kit, and know what to do during and after a disaster. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors of this review searched Scopus and MEDLINE to understand the literature around LGBTQ+ people and gender minorities in disasters. They found only 12 articles on disaster risk reduction that included discussion of gender diversity or nonbinary individuals. The authors recommend that researchers and practitioners working on disasters use inclusive terminology, recognize that the gender binary does not encompass all individuals, and acknowledge that a more expansive conception of gender should be used. Login to favorite or comment on the article This hotline is available to LGBTQ+ elders and their caretakers and is available 24/7, in English and Spanish (with translation in 180 languages). Login to favorite or comment on the article This report provides behavioral health providers, researchers, policymakers, and others with an overview of LGBTQI+ youth and related general research and information specific to this community’s behavioral health concerns. It also includes evidence-informed policy options designed to improve LGBTQI+ youth overall health. Login to favorite or comment on the article This website links to resources for LGBTQ+ youth including information on caring for transgender children, LGBTQ+ organizations, the experiences of LGBTQ+ students of color, a safe space kit, and the Trevor Project’s national hotline. The National Child Traumatic Stress Network. Login to favorite or comment on the article This organization provides a 24/7 hotline and resources for LGBTQ+ youth. The website explores topics relevant to LGBTQ+ youth, provides a network to connect LGBTQ+ youth, provides crisis services, advocacy, research, and public education. Login to favorite or comment on the article The Trevor Project’s 2024 U.S. National Survey on the Mental Health of LGBTQ+ Young People found that 39% of the respondents had seriously contemplated suicide within the past year and 40% had access to a firearm in their home. Those with firearms in the home had significantly higher rates of suicide attempts. More than 20% of respondents said that they or someone they know had been personally impacted by a mass shooting; 87% reported "frequently worrying" about an incident. Findings indicated a relationship being affected by a mass shooting or knowing someone who was impacted by a mass shooting and risk of considering and attempting suicide. These and other findings emphasize the need for clear messaging regarding securing weapons in the home and more research on these intricate relationships. Login to favorite or comment on the article This report broadly covers the U.S. national preparedness for emergencies, while highlighting the LGBTQ+ population as a historically disadvantaged group which can experience worsened disparities after a disaster. LGBTQ+ individuals may be especially affected in emergencies because they are more likely to be socially isolated and face discrimination or harassment in an emergency shelter setting. Login to favorite or comment on the article Health Care and Health Insurance Resources for Individuals This resource provides an overview of Mpox, responses to frequently asked questions, and links to related articles, social media posts, and resources. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage describes marketplace protections from discrimination by insurance companies, how to lower costs, and provides links to information on enrollment, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage highlights important details for transgender people to consider in the health insurance marketplace including applying for Marketplace coverage, sex-specific preventive services, and plans with transgender exclusions. Login to favorite or comment on the article This notice includes links to federal civil rights laws and federal healthcare privacy laws that apply to providing gender affirming care for minors and can help healthcare providers and loved ones better navigate related issues. Link to complaint portal: https://ocrportal.hhs.gov/ocr/smartscreen/main.jsf Login to favorite or comment on the article Lessons Learned: Climate Change/Natural Disasters This 45-minute panel discussion features five LGBTQ+ leaders from southwest Florida sharing the impact of the hurricane on their communities. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author conducted interviews with 12 displaced, transgendered individuals who sought shelter after a natural disaster in 2018 to learn more about their experiences. Overall, participants noted biased and stereotyped behavior that may have kept others in the same community from seeking shelter. Recommendations for improving conditions at shelters for the transgender community are included. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author describes how LGBTQ+ communities were marginalized during Hurricane Katrina disaster planning and response due to discriminatory policy and social stigma and emphasizes the need for integration of LGBTQ+ communities in disaster preparedness and response. Login to favorite or comment on the article In this literature review, the author provides an overview of the vulnerability and resilience of the LGBTQ community and explains how they have either been neglected or heterogenized in emergency management messages. Themes in literature (e.g., diversity, discrimination, service provision and health needs, and inequality) are covered and this is followed by a longer description of the concept of privacy and trust during and after a disaster. The rest of the paper covers issues associated with faith-based organizations and suggestions for improving messaging and overall inclusion. Login to favorite or comment on the article The speakers discuss marginalization of the LGBTQ+ community during disasters, especially in the context of climate change. Disaster plans which do not incorporate considerations for LGBTQ+ communities may exacerbate the trauma of a disaster (e.g., injury, loss of loved ones, or loss of possessions). The speakers recommend inclusion and funding of LGBTQ+ people in preparedness policy, while also maintaining grassroots engagement among community members. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author included 35 full-text, peer reviewed publications in this literature review to understand how disasters affect marginalized communities, including those identifying as LGBTQ+. The author recommends political and educational reforms to improve disaster response for these communities, an increase in research funding, training for emergency service personnel in cultural competency, and emphasizes the importance of community mutual aid. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author of this thesis describes a project that aimed to use community science to improve understanding about the impact of disasters on queer community members; collect data that contributes to this understanding; transfer knowledge between underrepresented groups and scientists; and “advocate for LGBTQ+ inclusion in disaster science, policy, and practice.” Login to favorite or comment on the article The author tells the story of the Santa Rosa Trans Latinas, a trans community in California, some of whom are farmworkers whose work was interrupted by the Tubbs Fire in 2017 and subsequent wildfires. Their story highlights how LGBTQ+ people rely on their communities, are often left out of disaster planning more broadly, and how disaster preparedness and relief efforts can better serve LGBTQ+ communities in the future. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors reviewed 27 resources and found that natural disasters and inadequate disaster relief responses threaten gender diverse populations. They found four sub-themes that emerged from the review: inequitable distribution and lack of access to disaster relief resources; increased risk of gender-based violence; negative mental health affects; and miscategorization of gender during disaster relief efforts that indirectly caused harm. They emphasized the need for more research upon which recommendations can be made. Login to favorite or comment on the article This article examines how Houston’s LGBTQ+ community recovered from Hurricane Harvey from a social and cultural anthropology perspective. The author highlights the additional challenges faced after a disaster due to historic marginalization and discrimination in a community already coping with gentrification and the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Login to favorite or comment on the article Lessons Learned: COVID-19 This webpage provides links to the slide deck and webinar on how lessons learned from Ebola, H1N1, and the HIV/AIDS crisis can be used to help philanthropic agencies direct support and protect vulnerable communities. Login to favorite or comment on the article Older and transgender LGBTQ+ people who have had experiences with the HIV/AIDS pandemic have a unique perspective with regards to disasters, public safety, and health care in general. The authors examine this community’s experiences in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic in the San Francisco Bay area. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors examined how the COVID-19 pandemic impacted sexual minority adults in the U.S. as compared with heterosexual adults. They analyzed data from a national sample of U.S. adults reporting on eight measures of wellbeing. The results show that wellbeing declined across sexual identity subgroups during the pandemic, but that bisexual men and women were most negatively affected. The authors emphasize the importance of cultural responsiveness for emergency planning during and beyond the COVID-19 pandemic. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors sought to understand COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among LGBTQ+ communities, whose concerns included vaccine efficacy, vaccine safety, and previous unsatisfactory experiences with health care. The authors recommend acknowledging disparities, building trust, removing systematic discrimination, and prioritizing LGBTQ+ people in public health research and policy to improve vaccine hesitancy among this population. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors review results from a community survey to determine how the pandemic affected various aspects of the LGBTQ+ community (e.g., health, social, and occupational areas). They found that overall, the pandemic contributed to decreased quality of life among the community, particularly gender minority people. Results from this community snapshot and the authors call for additional research to create more culturally focused interventions to public health emergencies. Login to favorite or comment on the article This report highlights lessons learned Outright’s COVID-19 Global LGBTIQ Emergency Fund. The fund provided emergency support to organizations serving LGBTIQ people impacted by the pandemic and issued 355 grants totaling USD 3.8 million to groups from 108 countries, reaching over 170,000 individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article To improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ communities during emergencies such as COVID-19, the authors of this article recommend improving cultural training for health professionals, increasing LGBTQ+ measures when conducting health surveillance, researching the impact of COVID on these populations, and introducing equity initiatives in emergency plans. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors provide two case studies on how two grantees (Out Boulder County in Colorado and the Coalition of Asian American Leaders in Minnesota) addressed the inequitable distribution and uptake of COVID-19 vaccinations in areas that were disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. They stressed the need for disaggregated data to help community organizations better analyze local inequities and prioritize resources. Login to favorite or comment on the article In this letter to the editor, the writers describe health care disparities (e.g., respiratory health conditions due to higher rates of smoking, the effect of hormone therapy on immunity, the effect of social isolation, and a variety of challenges related to health care access and provision) that put the LGBTQ+ population at greater risk during the pandemic. The authors emphasize the need for health care providers to increase awareness and ensure equitable access and care of this a “less visible segment of the marginalized population.” Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors conducted a survey of local service provides and mapped needs and assets in Baltimore to understand how social determinants of health affected the burden of COVID-19, including the LGBTQ+ community. The authors found that three communities in Baltimore were most vulnerable, and 522 organizations were identified as involved in the COVID-19 response. Challenges to providing services included funding, recruitment, and limited information from local officials. Login to favorite or comment on the article The articles in this issue cover a variety of topics related to the impact of the pandemic on LTGTQ+ people, including social norms and alcohol and marijuana use, mental health support, and social distancing and the use of technology. Login to favorite or comment on the article Lessons Learned: Mass Violence In June 2016, when a gunman killed 49 people and wounded 53 at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub, the state responded to an event unlike any it had faced before. ASPR TRACIE interviewed several state disaster behavioral health professionals to learn more about their experiences. Login to favorite or comment on the article Mass violence incidents require efficiency and coordination among multiple response entities. Efforts may need to be directed toward doing the greatest good for the greatest amount of people, which is counter to day-to-day trauma triage. These ASPR TRACIE-developed resources based on lessons from multiple jurisdictions can help our stakeholders prepare for, respond to, and help their communities recover from these traumatic events. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors examined the effect of media how the Pulse Nightclub shooting affected post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTS) in U.S. adults. The results show that exposure to media about the Pulse Nightclub shooting directly affected emotional response and post-traumatic stress (PTS) symptoms (with those identifying as LGBTQ+ having stronger reactions). Ceasing consumption of the media coverage “mediated the relationship between exposure to media coverage and PTS.” Login to favorite or comment on the article After memorializing known victims of violence against transgender and gender non-conforming people, this report provides statistics associated with known cases of violence against this population. Most victims are people of color, younger, and women. Statistics from 2021 and 2022 indicate that these acts have been recorded in 38 states, involve guns, and many remain unsolved. A list of legal protections is provided, and strategies for helping prevent this type of violence are found at the bottom of the page. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors examined how identity affected members of the LGBTQ+ population’s response to the Pulse nightclub shooting. Results showed that “identity centrality” (i.e., the level of importance an individual places on their own concept of self) was associated with identifying with the victims, which led to greater perceived threat and negative affect. The authors conclude that hate crimes can increase distress in individuals who identify as LGBTQ+ and can lead to an increased sense of devaluation. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors reviewed literature to better understand perceived safety among LGBTQ+ individuals after the Pulse nightclub shooting, including differences based on race/ethnicity, gender identity, and sexual orientation. The results show that individuals from more marginalized identities within the LGBTQ+ community had more safety concerns than those with relatively more privileged identities. Safety concerns could worsen stress, which in turn can lead to poor health outcomes. The authors emphasize the importance of health care providers being trained to work with LGBTQ+ people, providing appropriate care, and giving counselling referrals to improve the sense of safety in this population. Login to favorite or comment on the article The article describes the incident and how the shooter was charged with several counts of bias motivated crimes. Login to favorite or comment on the article Lessons Learned: Mpox This webpage provides information on vaccine supply and distribution and links to related federal agency announcements. Login to favorite or comment on the article This recorded episode illustrates how Howard Brown Health, an organization which provides care for the LGBTQ+ community in Chicago, did so during the Mpox outbreak. It includes information on infection control practices and treatment of suspected and confirmed Mpox cases. Login to favorite or comment on the article This page highlights resources identified or developed to to help health care providers address the 2022 Mpox outbreak. Login to favorite or comment on the article This resource provides an overview of Mpox, responses to frequently asked questions, and links to related articles, social media posts, and resources. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author provides an overview of the mpox outbreak, emphasizing the need for public health messages to educate all without stigmatizing those most at risk. Login to favorite or comment on the article Mental Health Resources This ASPR TRACIE document contains information on and links to programs and resources available to communities affected by mass shooting/mass violence events. Login to favorite or comment on the article This Topic Collection addresses the impact of post-disaster mental and behavioral health-related challenges on the health care system. It includes links to plans, tools, and templates and resources geared towards health care providers and responders and survivors. Login to favorite or comment on the article This project is geared towards providing hope and resources to LGBTQ+ youth. It includes links to videos, educational resources, and information on global efforts. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage contains information on coping with tragedy and trauma after the Club Q mass shooting in Colorado Springs, Colorado. It suggests practices for self-care and links to resources such as the Trevor Project. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage provides the LGBTQ+ community with free and confidential support and referral resources via phone, text, and chat. Login to favorite or comment on the article National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). (n.d.). LGBTQI. (Accessed 6/11/2024.) This page highlights the unique mental health needs of the LGBTQI community and includes hotlines and links to resources to help address those needs. Login to favorite or comment on the article * National Child Traumatic Stress Network. (n.d.). LGBTQ Youth. (Accessed 6/11/2024.) This webpage includes links to NCTSN and external resources on traumas experienced by LGBTQ youth and tools for professionals who work with them. Login to favorite or comment on the article NNED is a network of community-based organizations focused on the mental health and substance use issues of diverse racial and ethnic communities. The NNED supports information sharing, training, and technical assistance towards the goal of promoting behavioral health equity. Login to favorite or comment on the article This hotline is available to LGBTQ+ elders and their caretakers and is available 24/7, in English and Spanish (with translation in 180 languages). Login to favorite or comment on the article This resource provides tips and resources for members of the LGBTQ+ community that may be feeling stress the compounding stresses of Mpox, HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, and homophobia/biphobia/transphobia. It also provides links to resources for getting vaccinated for Mpox and SAMHSA’s Disaster Distress Helpline. Login to favorite or comment on the article This Center provides behavioral health practitioners with vital information on supporting the population of people identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, two spirit, and other diverse sexual orientations, gender identities and expressions. Login to favorite or comment on the article Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and Vibrant Emotional Health. (2023). 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline: LGBTQ+. (Formerly known as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline) Users can call, text, or chat 988 to access trained crisis counselors anywhere in the U.S. who can help anyone experiencing suicidal, substance use, and/or mental health crisis, or any other kind of emotional distress. Login to favorite or comment on the article Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Disaster Technical Assistance Center. (2023). The Dialogue (Volume 18, Issue 4). U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The articles in this issue cover the disaster behavioral health needs of LGBTQIA+ disaster survivors, and include a feature on Native American LGBTQIA+ populations and the unique challenges of serving these communities; a glossary of currently accepted terms pertaining to sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression; recent research and recommendations for equitable LGBTQIA+ disaster behavioral health planning and response; and a summary of new federal resources focused on enhancing equity for LGBTQIA+ people. Login to favorite or comment on the article This organization provides a 24/7 hotline and resources for LGBTQ+ youth. The website explores topics relevant to LGBTQ+ youth, provides a network to connect LGBTQ+ youth, provides crisis services, advocacy, research, and public education. Login to favorite or comment on the article This organization is “run by and for trans people” and provides peer support and a 24/7 hotline (Spanish speaking operators are also available). Login to favorite or comment on the article Plans, Tools, and Templates In disaster events, many of the existing health disparities and inequities faced by underserved communities, particularly those residing in communities with high social vulnerability indices, are exacerbated. This tool can help state, local, or tribal partners create or implement disaster recovery plans by highlighting data sources, metrics, outcomes, and key stakeholders engaged in supporting whole-of-community approaches for disaster recovery (e.g., disaster equity or health equity training, review of inequitable practices, an equitable community engagement process). Login to favorite or comment on the article Emergency planners can use this resource to learn more about developing culturally sensitive policies that serve members of the LGBT community in a disaster. It includes a one page cultural competence guide that can be disseminated just before or after a disaster. Login to favorite or comment on the article The Center created this list of resources during the 2020 California wildfire season, but it is generalizable and includes links to resources for planners, providers, and community members. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage contains NVOAD’s commitment to “providing appropriate services without discrimination respecting all individuals including those from different backgrounds and communities.” Login to favorite or comment on the article This pledge, required for members of New York Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster, provides an anti-discrimination and diversity, equity, and inclusion policy for community organizations assisting after a disaster. It can serve as a template for organizations in other parts of the country seeking to adopt their own inclusion policy for working with the LGBTQ+ community after a disaster. Login to favorite or comment on the article Resources for Health Care Providers This recorded episode illustrates how Howard Brown Health, an organization which provides care for the LGBTQ+ community in Chicago, did so during the Mpox outbreak. It includes information on infection control practices and treatment of suspected and confirmed Mpox cases. Login to favorite or comment on the article This suite of e-learning modules can help both clinical and non-clinical staff serve LGBTQI+ people in health care settings. Modules cover providing services in a safe environment, engagement strategies, and using the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (created in collaboration with Vibrant Health). Login to favorite or comment on the article Gender-affirming care (i.e., medical, surgical, mental health, and non-medical services for transgender and nonbinary people) is considered a standard level of care by the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American Psychiatric Association. This press release describes how CMS approved the request to provide gender-affirming care in the individual and small group health insurance markets in the State of Colorado. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors aim to improve cultural awareness for humanitarian non-governmental organization (NGO) workers by creating cultural awareness competencies in consultation with experts. Through the process, consensus was reached on ten cultural competencies, including “Gender and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Other Sexual Identities (LGBTQ+) Issues and Safety,” that should be included NGO staff educational programs. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage describes best practices for LGBTQ+ telehealth care and how telehealth can support LGBTQ+ patients. Quick facts on proper terminology and links to related resources are also provided. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors surveyed EMS education program directors across the state of Maryland about cultural sensitivity training in their programs. Of the 16 sixteen programs that completed the survey, 38% were educating trainees on LGBTQ+ cultural considerations, and 75% would be willing to include information on these communities in their curricula. The authors suggest similar studies and further research on EMS curricula should be done in across the U.S. Login to favorite or comment on the article This article gives guidance on providing trauma-informed care to the LGBTQ+ population, as they are at increased risk for trauma and discrimination than cisgender populations. This article addresses how to use a trauma-informed and gender-relevant lens to provide health care among this population, including after mass trauma events such as the Pulse Nightclub or Club Q shootings. Login to favorite or comment on the article Terrorist incidents such as the Pulse Night Club Shooting in June 2016 illustrate how important it is for emergency managers and disaster responders to understand and provide culturally competent disaster assistance to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, Queer, Intersex, and Two-Spirit (LGBTQI2-S) community; particularly if members of the community are targeted or impacted by a particular disaster. This document lists barriers community members may encounter after an incident and strategies for helping them access services. Links to related resources are provided at the end. Spanish version also available: https://files.asprtracie.hhs.gov/documents/lgbtqi2-s-spanishfac-handout-la-county-dmh-7-17-18-final.pdf Login to favorite or comment on the article * National Child Traumatic Stress Network. (n.d.). LGBTQ Youth. (Accessed 6/11/2024.) This webpage includes links to NCTSN and external resources on traumas experienced by LGBTQ youth and tools for professionals who work with them. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors list some of the challenges LGBT people (including youth, seniors, couples, and families) are likely to encounter after a disaster and how health centers can help address them in their plans. Login to favorite or comment on the article This toolkit from NYC Health + Hospitals provides guidance for “high quality care in a safe and respectful environment” for New York City’s LGBTQ+ communities. It provides background information on this population and health care, barriers to care, and a checklist to evaluate how welcoming a health care center is to LGBTQ+ patients. Login to favorite or comment on the article This white paper is based on the significant experience Orlando Regional Medical Center had after the Pulse Nightclub shooting and can help health care facility emergency planners plan for and better support non-resident/foreign patients in general and after a mass casualty/mass fatality incident. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author discusses best practices for ensuring disaster relief efforts are inclusive of LGBTQ+ people, especially in emergency shelters, including not asking for gender information unless necessary to provide culturally sensitive health care, making gender-neutral bathrooms available, and considering assigning shower times to accommodate trans individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article This infographic illustrates important aspects of trauma-informed care for LGBTQ+ populations. It includes emphasis on safety, peer support, empowerment, trustworthiness, transparency, collaboration, cultural issues, and historical issues. Login to favorite or comment on the article This report provides behavioral health providers, researchers, policymakers, and others with an overview of LGBTQI+ youth and related general research and information specific to this community’s behavioral health concerns. It also includes evidence-informed policy options designed to improve LGBTQI+ youth overall health. Login to favorite or comment on the article This webpage outlines to whom health care providers can disclose protected health information when a friend or partner is not married to the patient or recognized as a relative. The guidance is important to LGBTQ+ community members, their families, friends, and those who may make health care decisions for them in some cases. Login to favorite or comment on the article This article discusses the historical and collective trauma experienced by LGBTQ+ people, including the tragedies of the Pulse Nightclub and Club Q shootings. The author begins with his personal experiences of trauma as a member of the LGBTQ+ community, and then discusses how to cope with historical and collective trauma. Login to favorite or comment on the article Resources for Planners FEMA’s 2020 annual National Preparedness Report identified communities of color, single parents, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people as being at the highest risk or more severely impacted during disasters. The information and resources included on this web page can help emergency planners and shelter providers create a more inclusive environment after a disaster occurs. The webpage also includes information on disaster preparedness for individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article This page can help emergency planners ensure their work is inclusive and supportive of the LGBTQ+ community. Their overall website includes updates on recent disasters and educational resources that focus on preparedness, philanthropy, response and recovery. Login to favorite or comment on the article Speakers in these roundtable discussions covered topics such as existing activities that incorporate LGBTQ+ considerations into disaster preparedness, gaps, and solutions for addressing them. Access the second roundtable here: https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-community-disasters-preparedness-and-mitigation-considerations Login to favorite or comment on the article This guide can help emergency managers ensure their exercises: are inclusive and diverse, incorporate community demographics, make information accessible, include underserved communities, and are tailored to meet the unique needs of specific segments of the whole community. Login to favorite or comment on the article Emergency planners can use this resource to learn more about developing culturally sensitive policies that serve members of the LGBT community in a disaster. It includes a one page cultural competence guide that can be disseminated just before or after a disaster. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author reviewed literature through 2018 that highlights the lack of safe spaces, stigmatization, physical and verbal abuse, and lack of disaster preparedness policy tailored to LGBTQ+ communities around the world. The recommendations at the end of the article can be used to improve disaster preparedness and outcomes for LGBTQ+ communities experiencing disasters. Login to favorite or comment on the article The Center created this list of resources during the 2020 California wildfire season, but it is generalizable and includes links to resources for planners, providers, and community members. Login to favorite or comment on the article This resource can help disaster aid workers provide a safe, non-discriminatory shelter environment for evacuees. It includes tips for interacting with and providing safety and security to transgender evacuees. Login to favorite or comment on the article This article summarizes Leighton Jones’ (an Emergency Preparedness Research, Evaluation & Practice Program Senior Program Manager at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health) presentation at the 2019 Preparedness Summit. Jones covered challenges associated with shelter needs and strategies for engaging the LGBT community in community disaster preparedness. Login to favorite or comment on the article This tip sheet defines sexual orientation and gender identity and provides strategies that can help planners address some of the unique challenges faced by LGBT people in shelters. Login to favorite or comment on the article The report synthesizes presentations from two 2023 webinars and provides recommendations for how emergency responders and faith-based organizations can incorporate LGBTQIA+ considerations in all phases of emergency management. Login to favorite or comment on the article The author discusses best practices for ensuring disaster relief efforts are inclusive of LGBTQ+ people, especially in emergency shelters, including not asking for gender information unless necessary to provide culturally sensitive health care, making gender-neutral bathrooms available, and considering assigning shower times to accommodate trans individuals. Login to favorite or comment on the article The authors provide an overview of the challenges and “policy blind spots” associated with disaster preparedness and LGBTQIA+ people. This is followed by recommendations and case studies on outreach and community engagement, establishing safe spaces, mental health support, recognizing capabilities, and training. Login to favorite or comment on the article Agencies and Organizations Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article This organization is “run by and for trans people” and provides peer support and a 24/7 hotline (Spanish speaking operators are also available). Login to favorite or comment on the article Login to favorite or comment on the article