June 2024Vol. 25, No. 5Spotlight on Reunification This edition of CBX spotlights the importance of supporting family reunification. In honor of Pride Month, we also provide resources about youth in child welfare who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex, asexual, Two-Spirit, or other gender or sexual identity (LGBTQIA2S+). Read a message from Commissioner Rebecca Jones Gaston about the need to appropriately serve and support LGBTQIA2S+ children in foster care. Additionally, this issue includes valuable resources for professionals and the families they serve. Issue Spotlight - A Message From Commissioner Rebecca Jones Gaston A Message From Commissioner Rebecca Jones Gaston Written by Commissioner Rebecca Jones Gaston On April 29 of this year, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued a final rule on the Designated Placement Requirements Under Titles IV-E and IV-B for LGBTQI+ Children. The final rule requires title IV-E and title IV-B agencies to have sufficient placements designated to meet the needs of children and youth in foster care who are LGBTQI+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex, or other gender or sexual identity) and necessary services to support their well-being. Recognizing the vital role of kin caregivers in the child welfare system, the final rule clarifies that title IV–E and title IV–B agencies should improve access to kinship care as they implement the requirements of this regulation. Children who enter foster care because of familial conflict regarding their LGBTQI+ status or identity may have a supportive relative who is willing to serve as a kin caregiver. And, under the rule, foster care providers, including kin, can receive training and services to designate them as supportive of LGBTQI+ children currently in their care. Nearly 1 in 3 (or approximately 30 percent) of older children in foster care identify as LGBTQI+. Youth in foster care who identify as LGBTQI+ are more likely to experience the following than their non-LGBTQI+ peers: - Be placed in congregate care settings - Report maltreatment while in the foster care system (Cooper et al., 2014) - Experience homelessness The final rule represents a vital step toward safety, permanency, and well-being—foundational priorities of the Children’s Bureau. When children cannot safely remain with their own families, they deserve a supportive foster care placement free of harassment, mistreatment, or abuse. We must continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of LGBTQI+ youth. By creating supportive environments and providing needed resources and services, we can help ensure that LGBTQI+ youth and young adults can thrive and reach their full potential. Reference Cooper, K., Kastanis, A., Nezhad, S., & Wilson, B. (2014, August). Sexual and gender minority youth in foster care: Assessing disproportionality and disparities in Los Angeles. https://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/publications/sgm-youth-la-foster-care/ - The ABCs of Reunification The ABCs of Reunification Written by Jennifer Lee, Children’s Bureau National Foster Care Specialist Remember when understanding something was as simple as ABC? As children, the way we learn about and understand the world starts with grasping the ABCs. What if we took those lessons out of the traditional classroom and applied them to child welfare? Reunification is one of the foundational goals of child welfare practice—to bring families back together. During National Reunification Month this June, let’s look at the importance of reunification through the lens of the ABCs by Acknowledging that all families deserve an opportunity for reunification, Believing that families can achieve this goal, and Committing to a culturally responsive approach to reunification. A - Acknowledge: All families deserve an opportunity to reunify, regardless of their past challenges or circumstances. Acknowledging this fundamental principle of equitability is essential in the reunification process. It requires recognizing that every family has inherent worth and dignity, and that reunification is a right that should be afforded to all families. By acknowledging this truth, we affirm our commitment to fairness and justice in the child welfare system. B - Believe: Believe that all families have functional strengths for the reunification journey. Hope is the cornerstone of reunification, and believing in the potential of families to overcome obstacles and thrive is paramount. It involves recognizing and amplifying families' voices, strengths, and resources. Belief is contagious. When we nurture a culture of hope and optimism, we help families envision a future where they can reunify and flourish together. C - Commit: Commit to a culturally responsive approach to reunification. As child welfare professionals, our commitment goes beyond cultural awareness to celebrating the intersecting identities that shape each family. We recognize that race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and gender identity and expression affect an individual’s worldview, experiences, and relationships. By committing to a culturally responsive approach that prioritizes family ties and kin, we acknowledge the systemic inequities and biases that affect underserved communities and work toward dismantling them. Think about the opportunities you have to Acknowledge, Believe, and Commit during June and beyond. Grounded in the simplicity of the ABCs is the absolute ability to transform lives and create an environment where every child, youth, and young adult is nurtured and encouraged to thrive within their family and community. - Reunification From Foster Care: A Guide for Parents Reunification From Foster Care: A Guide for Parents For many parents, the process of reuniting with their children who are in foster care can be overwhelming. A recently updated factsheet from Child Welfare Information Gateway provides parents with guidance for the reunification process. Reunification From Foster Care: A Guide for Parents walks parents through the essential steps they will take to navigate the reunification process. This guide is designed to educate and empower parents with the knowledge and support they need for successful family reunification. The factsheet highlights the collaborative nature of this journey and introduces the team that will support parents throughout the process, including caseworkers and resource parents. A cooperative relationship between the biological and resource parents can significantly affect the ease of transition for the child returning home. It also strongly emphasizes the importance of parents understanding their rights within the foster care system, empowering them to advocate effectively for themselves and their children. Other aspects covered include what to expect while the child is in foster care, what a case plan might include, the critical importance of maintaining quality family time, and the significant role parents play in the reunification process. After reunification, families may encounter different challenges. Parents can read about what they might expect after reunification as they welcome their child back into their home and adjust to being together again. The factsheet also connects parents with national parent and family organizations, offering additional support networks and resources. Access Reunification From Foster Care: A Guide for Parents on the Information Gateway website. - The Importance of Father Engagement in Family-Centered Reunification The Importance of Father Engagement in Family-Centered Reunification In January 2024, the National Quality Improvement Center on Family-Centered Reunification (QIC-R) presented a webinar, "Building a Culture of Father Engagement to Enrich Family-Centered Reunification," which focused on the importance of including fathers in the child welfare system. The webinar reviews the history of father involvement in child welfare, acknowledging how perspectives and approaches have shifted over time. The presenter, Child Welfare Consultant Chauncey Strong, discusses the significant role that fathers play in the family dynamic and the benefits of their engagement in the reunification process. The webinar also explores the challenges and successful strategies associated with effectively engaging fathers. This includes a discussion about cultural and systemic barriers that can complicate father engagement. Participants from various QIC-R sites also shared how their agencies are working to better integrate fathers into their programs, aiming to create a more family-centered approach. The webinar emphasizes the necessity of including fathers and the positive outcomes associated with their involvement. The recorded webinar and the PowerPoint presentation are available online for those interested in the details of the discussion or in implementing similar strategies in their practices. - How Child Welfare Agencies Can Support Reunification How Child Welfare Agencies Can Support Reunification The American Bar Association's Center on Children and the Law hosted a webinar, "What Child Welfare Agencies Can Do to Support Reunification," on resource and foster caregivers' roles in the reunification process. The session focused on how child welfare agencies can facilitate and strengthen the connection between foster caregivers and parents—a relationship that is pivotal in supporting family reunification. Featuring examples from the Oregon and Georgia Departments of Human Services, the webinar explored practices agencies can adopt to enhance this partnership, emphasizing the importance of supporting family time and maintaining children's connections with their families. By fostering these relationships, agencies not only support the emotional well-being of children in foster care but also improve the chances for successful family reunification. The webinar also explored the parents' perspective, included recommendations for improving practice and the Parents Supporting Parents model, and offered insights and concrete strategies for child welfare professionals and those interested in the dynamics of foster care and family reunification. The recorded session and the accompanying PowerPoint presentation are available, providing resources for implementing these practices effectively within child welfare agencies. September 2024 Spotlight on Kinship Care July/August 2024 Spotlight on Youth, Authentic Youth Engagement, and Lived Experience Recent Issues News From the Children's Bureau In this section, find the latest news, resources, and publications from the Administration for Children and Families, the Children's Bureau, and other offices within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as well as a listing of the latest additions to the Children's Bureau website. - ACF National Call to Action Reinforces Its Commitment to Advancing Equity ACF National Call to Action Reinforces Its Commitment to Advancing Equity The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) hosted a National Call to Action on Equity as part of its continuing commitment to advancing racial equity and supporting underserved communities through the federal government. Leaders across ACF convened to discuss ongoing efforts, emphasizing collaboration to capitalize on successes and address challenges. ACF Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Jeff Hild highlighted the agency's mission to reduce structural barriers hindering the well-being of families and children, emphasizing equal opportunity for all. Discussions centered on ACF's actions to enhance equity across systems change, lived experience, and accessibility. These efforts span policy improvements and engagement with affected communities. ACF's commitment extends to program design, workforce inclusion, and technological accessibility enhancements. The initiative includes a national call to action on program offices' racial equity and equity action statements, outlining strategic plans to embed equity across programs. ACF urged individuals to take action through education and exploration, emphasizing fairness and justice in all processes. By prioritizing equity, ACF aims to promote equitable outcomes for diverse populations, building on successes and fostering genuine engagement to dismantle barriers. Access the full text of the call to action and additional links to other equity resources and initiatives. - Using Technology to Create Safe Spaces for LGBTQIA2S+ Youth in Reunification Using Technology to Create Safe Spaces for LGBTQIA2S+ Youth in Reunification Written by Children's Bureau Division of State Systems staff Child welfare agencies aim to provide a safe and supportive environment for children and youth who are working toward family reunification. A secure environment is especially needed during the reunification of youth who identify as LGBTQIA2S+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, intersex, asexual, Two-Spirit, and other diverse gender and sexual identities). According to Youth.gov, LGBTQ+ youth are overrepresented in child welfare systems, even though they are likely to be underreported because they risk harassment and abuse if their LGBTQ+ identity is disclosed.1 Studies have found that about 30 percent of youth in foster care identify as LGBTQ+ and 5 percent as transgender, in comparison to 11 percent and 1 percent, respectively, of youth not in foster care.2 Furthermore, LGBTQ+ youth of color are disproportionately overrepresented and stay longer in child welfare systems while also having an increased risk of experiencing discrimination and violence compared to their peers.3 Reunification Challenges These young LGBTQIA2S+ individuals often face unique challenges and barriers during the reunification process: - Lack of understanding: Some adults or other professionals involved in the youth's life may lack awareness about LGBTQIA2S+ issues. - Stigma or discrimination: Fear of stigma prevents some LGBTQIA2S+ youth from seeking help or asking important questions. - Access to information: Some LGBTQIA2S+ youth may need digital resources to navigate relevant topics or locate other youth in similar situations. However, technology can play a pivotal role in helping to address their information needs, foster safe and inclusive environments, and reduce some potential reunification barriers. Safe Digital Spaces Today’s technology can provide a lifeline by creating safe digital spaces where LGBTQIA2S+ youth can connect with their peers, find support, and express their authentic selves, such as the following examples: - Safe space apps have been developed specifically for LGBTQIA2S+ youth to provide information on local resources, legal rights, and mental health support. Having access to this material can empower LGBTQIA2S+ youth to better advocate for themselves during the reunification process. - Mental health apps can provide virtual counseling and therapy. These tools allow LGBTQIA2S+ youth to access mental health services discreetly to address their emotional well-being during the reunification process. - Online support groups can offer safe spaces for LGBTQIA2S+ youth to share their experiences, seek advice, and build connections. Some platforms also allow anonymity, which can be crucial for those youth who fear judgment but need the advice of others sharing related reunification events. Technology for Empowerment During the reunification process, LGBTQIA2S+ youth can also investigate the following youth-centric technology: - Interactive websites: This technology engages youth with topics such as frequently asked questions, success stories, relevant advice, and video testimonials from LGBTQIA2S+ individuals who have navigated the reunification process successfully. - Youth advisory boards: Some digital platforms facilitate virtual youth advisory boards where LGBTQIA2S+ youth can actively participate in shaping child welfare policies and technology systems. Their insights can drive positive changes for the reunification process of current and future LGBTQIA2S+ youth. - Learning resources: Webinars, training modules, and e-learning resources that offer relevant LGBTQIA2S+ youth topics are available online. Adult and Caregiver Resources To learn more about LGBTQIA2S+ youth concerns, the following adult and caregiver resources may be available: - Online training modules: Adults in a youth's life or interested child welfare professionals can access trainings or online modules on topics such as LGBTQIA2S+ cultural competency, pronoun usage, and self-care. - Virtual workshops: Hosted webinars and workshops held for parents, kin (including maternal and paternal relatives as well as fictive kin), foster parents, and child welfare professionals can bring understanding and acceptance of LGBTQIA2S+ youth as well as a successful reunification outcome. Summary Technology has the potential to transform lives and improve the reunification process for LGBTQIA2S+ youth. By creating safe digital spaces, breaking down barriers, empowering youth, and helping their adult caregivers, technology can help ensure that every young person feels seen, heard, and valued. Let’s embrace technology as a positive catalyst for change to build a more inclusive future for everyone. Additional Resources - "Creating an Affirming Culture and Climate for LGBTQIA2S+ Children, Young People, and Families in Child Welfare" (Children's Bureau Express) - Equity for LGBTQIA2S+ Individuals (Child Welfare Information Gateway) - Resources to Support the LGBTQIA2S+ Community (Child Welfare Information Gateway) - Affirming and Supporting LGBTQ Children and Youth in Child Welfare (Capacity Building Center for States) References 2 Baams, Wilson, & Russell, 2019; Matarese et al., 2021; Sandfort, 2020 3 Huggins et al., 2019; Conron & Wilson, 2019; Wilson & Kastanis, 2015 - Artificial Intelligence as a Form of Evidence Artificial Intelligence as a Form of Evidence A blog from the Office of Planning, Research, and Evaluation explores artificial intelligence (AI) and its potential use in government services and producing evidence. A recent Executive Order and Office of Management and Budget Memorandum underscored AI's promise in government services, highlighting its capacity to enhance efficiency and tailor services to individual beneficiaries. However, despite its potential benefits, concerns remain regarding AI's ethical and equitable use. AI, defined in the White House Executive Order as a machine-based system capable of making predictions and recommendations, has significant implications for government operations. Leveraging available data and statistical methodologies, AI algorithms can generate predictions and recommendations, shaping decision-making processes. However, AI's evolving nature poses unique challenges. Unlike traditional statistical models, AI continuously learns and adapts, resulting in outcomes that may be less transparent and predictable. The blog suggests that AI can generate evidence. However, it requires careful interpretation and consideration by humans and should not be taken as the end point of or the sole contributor to decision-making. Effective use of AI evidence requires attention to data quality—including biases embedded in the data—and application. Collaborative approaches, emphasizing partner engagement and capacity building, are essential to ensure robust governance and integration of AI within government frameworks. The blog highlights the importance of aligning with existing federal frameworks, a human-centered approach, and ethical considerations when evaluating AI's potential for societal benefit. The implications for policy and practice are complex. Policymakers should explore the ethical dilemmas surrounding AI implementation and make decisions that uphold principles of transparency and fairness. Additionally, practitioners should adapt to the evolving landscape, acquiring the skills to leverage AI insights effectively. - Children's Bureau Website Updates Children's Bureau Website Updates The Children's Bureau website hosts information on child welfare programs, funding, monitoring, training and technical assistance, laws, statistics, research, federal reporting, and much more. The following list includes recent additions or updates to the Children’s Bureau site and a selection of recent items from the Administration for Children and Families: Children’s Bureau: - Call for Nominations: Adoption Excellence Awards [Nominations must be received by July 1, 2024.] - IM-24-03: Supporting Families Impacted by Domestic Violence: Opportunities to Partner With Families to Promote Family Violence Prevention Programs and Services - IM-24-04: Final Rule on Designated Placement Requirements Under Titles IV-E and IV-B for LGBTQI+ Children - IM-24-05: Final Rule on Foster Care Legal Representation - 2024 Adoption Excellence Awards Nomination Guidelines and Forms (All nominations must be received by Friday, July 1, 2024) - PI-24-07: State Requirements for Electing Title IV-E Prevention and Family Services and Programs - 2024 National Center for Community-Based Child Abuse Prevention Notice of Funding Opportunity Frequently Asked Questions - 2024 Tribal Court Improvement Program Notice of Funding Opportunity Frequently Asked Questions - Annual Report to Congress on State Child Welfare Expenditures Reported on the CFS-101 (2023) - Tips for Using and Supplementing NYTD Data Snapshots - FY2024 Discretionary Grant Forecasts and Notices of Funding Opportunities (NOFOs)*: - The National Center for Tribal Child Welfare Innovation and Advancement (HHS-2024-ACF-ACYF-CZ-0067) - National Child Welfare Center for Court Innovation and Advancement (HHS-2024-ACF-ACYF-CZ-0066) - National Resource Center for Community-Based Child Abuse Prevention (HHS-2024-ACF-ACYF-CZ-0052) - State-Tribal Partnerships to Implement Best Practices in Indian Child Welfare (HHS-2024-ACF-ACYF-CW-0056) - Tribal Court Improvement Program (HHS-2024-ACF-ACYF-CS-0053) Administration for Children and Families: - ACF Healthy Equity Factsheet - ACF Policy for Requesting an Exemption From Required Electronic Application Submission - Applying Insights From Human Connection and Co-Regulation: Supporting Fathers in Human Services Programs - Building and Sustaining Data Analytics Capacity: The TANF Data Collaborative Pilot Initiative Final Report - Employment and Parenting Services for Noncustodial Parents: A Descriptive Study - Enhancing Cultural Responsiveness in Social Service Agencies - The Five Phases of Successful Data Analytics: TANF Data Collaborative Pilot Resources Toolkit - Funding Sources and TTA: Do Head Start Grant Recipients Access Different TTA Depending on the Funding Sources They Receive? - NSCAW III Baseline Report (2017-2022): Introduction to NSCAW III - Understanding Planning for Tribal Home Visiting Implementation: A Report from the Multi-Site Implementation Evaluation of Tribal Home Visiting - Using Data to Enhance Equity in Child Welfare: Findings From an Environmental Scan - The What, Why, and How of Collecting and Analyzing Demographic Data to Improve Equity in Child Welfare - Biden-Harris Administration Finalizes Rule to Strengthen Protections for Youth in the Child Welfare System [Press release] - HHS Finalizes Rule to Strengthen Services and Protections for Unaccompanied Children in Its Care [Press release] - The Administration for Children and Families and Raikes Foundation Launch the National Prevention Learning Collaborative on Youth Homelessness [Press release] - "ACF Takes Action to Increase Support for Child Care Providers" [The Family Room blog] - "National Convening on Kinship Care - Forging the Future: A Kin-First Approach in Child Welfare" [The Family Room blog] Visit the Children's Bureau website often to see what's new. *Visit grants.gov for the latest information. Training & Technical Assistance Updates This section features resources and updates from the Children's Bureau's technical assistance partners to support practices and systems that improve the lives of children and families. - New Training on Adapting Family Finding and Engagement Practices for LGBTQ+ Youth New Training on Adapting Family Finding and Engagement Practices for LGBTQ+ Youth A new online training from the National SOGIE Center provides information on supporting young people who identify as LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or other gender or sexual identity) during family finding and engagement processes. The free, 45-minute training provides information on supporting these young people and helping the adults in their lives understand and support them as well. Having a solid support network and lifelong connections is essential for all youth and young adults, especially those in and aging out of foster care. Young people in care who identify as LGBTQ+ may need additional support forging new connections and nurturing existing relationships due to unique stressors, such as disclosing their LGBTQ+ identity. In addition, the adults in their lives may need guidance on how to best support and affirm these young people. The training is provided by the National SOGIE Center and the National Quality Improvement Center on Tailored Services, Placement Stability, and Permanency for LGBTQ2S Children and Youth in Foster Care and is available on the National SOGIE Center website. The SOGIE Center offers a series of other trainings related to supporting LGBTQ+ youth, such as a training on creating affirming environments, best practices, and proper terminology. Explore the website for more information. - Capacity Building Center for Tribes Releases New Prevention Resources Capacity Building Center for Tribes Releases New Prevention Resources The Capacity Building Center for Tribes released two new prevention resources: a brief on family-strengthening prevention practices and definitions and a guide highlighting culturally relevant services and supports for child welfare programs. The Capacity Building Center for Tribes Prevention Brief defines each stage of the prevention services continuum within a tribal context: - Primary prevention services cultivate resilience, strengthen families, and educate caregivers through information, activities, and resources available in a community. These include supports for basic needs, cultural activities, family healing circles, and employment support. - Secondary prevention services support families experiencing challenges to reduce the risk of maltreatment. These include mental and behavioral health services, education and skill development, and in-home services. - Tertiary prevention services are available in homes where maltreatment has occurred. These include kinship support, housing assistance, and legal support. The brief goes on to detail prevention services available through tribal programming, including therapeutic cultural traditions and practices. It also outlines an example of tribal prevention services: the Ho-Chunk Nation’s Family Healing Camp, a culturally centered community event that offers wellness activities, healing circles, support groups, and more. The Capacity Building Center for Tribes Path to Prevention guide compiles training and technical assistance resources available to support tribal child welfare programs in developing and implementing prevention programs and practices. This includes resources available on the Center for Tribes' website as well as supports available for tribes with title IV-B and title IV-E funding. - New Series on Harm Reduction for Substance Use in the Context of Child Well-Being New Series on Harm Reduction for Substance Use in the Context of Child Well-Being A series from the National Center on Substance Abuse and Child Welfare (NCSACW) provides an overview of a harm reduction approach to support children, caregivers, and family members affected by substance use disorders. The series features three tip sheets on the following topics: - An Overview for Serving Families Affected by Substance Use Disorders - Key Considerations for Policymakers - Practice Recommendations for Child Welfare Workers The first tip sheet defines harm reduction as an approach that focuses on meeting the needs of an individual by improving access and engagement in substance use disorder treatment services. It provides an overview of the approach, while the following two tip sheets provide considerations and recommendations for more specific audiences: policymakers and child welfare professionals. The series is available on the NCSACW website. - Updates From the Children's Bureau's Training and Technical Assistance Partners Updates From the Children's Bureau's Training and Technical Assistance Partners The Children's Bureau funds several technical assistance centers to provide professionals with tools to better serve children, youth, and families. The following are some of the latest resources from these partners. Child Welfare Information Gateway Visit the Information Gateway website for more. Child Welfare Capacity Building Collaborative - Center for Courts - Center for States - "Attracting and Maintaining a Diverse Workforce: Addressing Moral Injury, Barriers to Advancement, and Becoming a Leader" [Video] - "Building Onboarding and Training Programs for Success: Experiences in Tribal and County-Administered Agencies" [Video] - "Child Welfare Virtual Expo (CWVE) 2023: Closing Remarks" [Video] - CWVE 2023 Learning Experience Discussion Guide - CWVE 2024 Navigation Guide - Creating an Affirming Culture and Climate for LGBTQIA2S+ Children and Young People in Child Welfare - "Fostering Successful Opportunities for L.C.S.W. Supervision" [Video] - "From Disparity to Unity: Transforming Child Welfare Through Racial Equity" [Video] - "The Impact of Lived Expertise in Evidence-Based Practice Work" [Video] - "Leaning Into the Wind: What We Know About the State of Child Welfare" [Video] - "Organizational Readiness and Retention for People With Lived Expertise" [Video] - Spotlight on Evaluating Prevention Efforts - "A Tale of 2 Counties: Development and Implementation of Coaching" [Video] - "Understanding Employee Performance, Turnover, and Well-Being Data" [Video] - "Work With Purpose: A Recruitment Campaign for Child Welfare" [Video] - Center for Tribes Tribal Information Exchange Visit the Child Welfare Capacity Building Collaborative website for more. Children's Bureau Learning and Coordination Center (CBLCC) - "5 Tips to Help Foster Kids" [Video] - “Thinking About Prevention Through the Lens of Culture and Community: Prevention Programs in Tribal Communities” [Digital dialogue] Visit the CBLCC website for more. FRIENDS National Resource Center - "April 2024 CBCAP Peer Learning Call – Overview of 2024 CBCAP Program Instruction and Application" [Webinar recording] - "Family Resource Center Discussion Series – Session 3: Evaluation" [Webinar recording] Visit the FRIENDS National Resource Center website for more. Center for Workforce Equity and Leadership - "Healing Fractures: The Importance of Resolving Workplace Conflict" [Blog post] - "Improving Your Leadership Style" [Blog post] - "Information Session: Introducing the New Center for Workforce Equity and Leadership" [Webinar recording] - "The Two Key Elements of a Good Supervisory Relationship" [Blog post] - "What Is Coaching?" [Blog post] Visit the Center for Workforce Equity and Leadership website for more. National Center for Adoption Competent Mental Health Services - "Addressing Racial Disparities in Child Welfare: Over 20 Years of an Unchanging System" [Blog post] - "Celebrate Children’s Mental Health Awareness Week: May 5 Through May 11" [Blog post] - "Improving the Mental Health and Well-Being of Children and Youth in Foster Care" [Blog post] - "Partner Corner – FosterClub" [Blog post] - "Small Steps, Big Dreams" [Blog post] - "Why Mental Health Matters During National Foster Care Month" [Blog post] Visit the National Center for Adoption Competent Mental Health Services website for more. National Center for Diligent Recruitment - "Enhancing Your Diligent Recruitment Through Adoptive, Foster, and Kinship Parent Support" [Upcoming webinar information and registration] - "Leveraging Data to Improve Diligent Recruitment Planning and Implementation" [Webinar recording] - National Center for Diligent Recruitment [Brochure] Visit the National Center for Diligent Recruitment website for more. National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support - National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support [Brochure] - New Center Chats and Webinars Added to Events Visit the National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support website for more. National Center on Substance Abuse and Child Welfare (NCSACW) - Child Welfare Supervisor’s Practice Guides to Safety and Risk: Visit the NCSACW website for more. National Child Welfare Workforce Institute (NCWWI) Visit the NCWWI website for more. National Data Archive on Child Abuse and Neglect (NDACAN) - NDACAN 2024 Summer Training Webinar Series [Information and registration] - Neglect and Prevention Policies (NAPP) Data - Spring 2024 issue of The NDACAN Updata [Newsletter] Visit the NDACAN website for more. Quality Improvement Center for Workforce Analytics (QIC-WA) - "QIC-WA Call for Sites Webinar" [Webinar recording] - QIC-WA Tribal Factsheet - "QIC-WA Tribal Information Session" [Webinar recording] Visit the QIC-WA website for more. Quality Improvement Center for Workforce Development (QIC-WD) - Final QIC-WD Newsletter - Supportive Supervision and Resiliency - Umbrella Summary: Leader-Member Exchange - Umbrella Summary: Transformational Leadership - Workforce Research Catalog [Tool] Visit the QIC-WD website for more. Quality Improvement Center on Engaging Youth in Finding Permanency (QIC-EY) - "QIC-EY NOW: Recognize That Challenging Behaviors May Be Connected to Trauma and Loss" [Video] - "QIC-EY: Shonda L. Marchall" [Video] - "QIC-EY: Understand How Trauma and Loss Impact Children and Youth" [Video] Visit the QIC-EY website for more. Quality Improvement Center on Family-Centered Reunification (QIC-R) Visit the QIC-R website for more. Quality Improvement Center on Tailored Services, Placement Stability, and Permanency for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, and Two-Spirit Children and Youth in Foster Care (QIC-LGBTQ2S) at the National Center for Youth with Diverse Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity & Expression (SOGIE Center) - "Adapting Family Finding & Engagement Practices for LGBTQ+ Young People" [e-learning] - "Reframing the Narrative of Substance Use and Risk Among LGBTQ+ Communities" [Blog post] Visit the QIC-LGBTQ2S on the SOGIE Center website for more. AdoptUSKids Visit the AdoptUSKids website for more. James Bell Associates - Responding to Prenatal Alcohol and Other Substance Exposures Webinar Series - Understanding Planning for Tribal Home Visiting Implementation: A Report From the Multi-Site Implementation Evaluation of Tribal Home Visiting - Using Process Mapping to Improve Services for Families Involved in Tribal Child Welfare: Facilitators’ Guide and Mapping Tool Visit the James Bell Associates website for more. Child Welfare Research In this section, we highlight recent studies, literature reviews, and other research on child welfare topics. - Scoping Review Explores Research on LGBTQ Youth and Caregivers in Child Welfare Scoping Review Explores Research on LGBTQ Youth and Caregivers in Child Welfare Individuals who identify as members of the LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning) community are prevalent in child welfare, with LGBTQ youth being overrepresented in care and an increasing number of LGBTQ people becoming foster parents. A scoping review published in Child and Family Social Work examines research on child welfare practice with LGBTQ youth, caregivers, and foster caregivers. The review is anchored in the following research questions: - What is known about the practices of child welfare services toward LGBTQ youth and caregivers? - What is known about LGBTQ foster parents? Forty-five studies published between 2000 and 2021 met the inclusion criteria, with the majority taking place in the United States and after 2014. The included studies are organized into three theme categories: LGBTQ youth in contact with child welfare services, foster parents, and child welfare practice from an LGBTQ perspective. While the review shows that published literature about LGBTQ youth and caregivers is increasing, it also shows there are relatively few empirical peer-reviewed studies on the topic. The findings indicate that LGBTQ youth are disproportionately represented in child welfare and have an increased risk for adverse health outcomes compared with non-LGBTQ youth. However, there are limited data on the number of LGBTQ youth in the system and no studies estimate the number of foster parents who identify as LGBTQ. The review highlights several areas where more research is needed, including research on the following topics: - Caseworker attitudes, knowledge, and experiences working with LGBTQ individuals - Non-LGBTQ foster parents of LGBTQ youth - Interventions to support LGBTQ youth - Transgender and intersex people within child welfare - The intersection of being LGBTQ and seeking health care More information is available in the review, "What is Known About the LGBTQ Perspective in Child Welfare Services: A Scoping Review." - Considerations for Linking Child Welfare and Medicaid Data Considerations for Linking Child Welfare and Medicaid Data Historically, states have not linked their child welfare and Medicaid data, despite many children involved with child welfare being eligible for Medicaid. A recent project from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation; the Office of Planning, Research, and Evaluation; and RTI International explores the benefits of connecting this data. The Child and Caregiver Outcomes Using Linked Data (CCOULD) project began in October 2019. Its goal was to provide technical assistance to states in linking child welfare case-level data and Medicaid administrative claims of children and their caregivers. A recent research brief provides lessons learned from the project based on the experiences of two states, Kentucky and Florida. Both states created linked datasets covering 2016 through 2021, with Florida's including 80 percent of children who had been in contact with child welfare and Kentucky's including 81 percent. The brief highlights lessons learned in four categories: - State recruitment and short- and long-term sustainability of the linkage project: Florida and Kentucky joined the project following a robust recruitment effort, which took longer than anticipated, according to the report. In the future, linkage efforts could focus on highlighting the value of linking data to states. - Data availability, consistency, and quality: Agencies may not have data dictionaries or user guides for their data and infrastructure. There was also a lack of data on caregivers and title IV-E prevention services. - State and federal regulations related to data linkage and sharing: States may benefit from clarifying regulations, improving data sharing, and following federal guidance. - Linkage methodology: The CCOULD project used a common data model and was able to link most children and caregivers using Social Security numbers. However, the linkage of parents to children was challenging because of a lack of family identifiers in Medicaid claims. To explore the lessons learned in more detail, read the full research brief, Linking Child Welfare and Medicaid Data: Lessons Learned From Two States. Strategies and Tools for Practice This section of CBX offers publications, articles, reports, toolkits, and other resources that provide evidence-based strategies or other concrete help to child welfare and related professionals. - The Role of Parent Partner Programs in Supporting Prevention and Reunification The Role of Parent Partner Programs in Supporting Prevention and Reunification A brief from Casey Family Programs discusses the positive impacts of parent partner programs in child welfare, such as offering guidance and hope to parents navigating challenging circumstances. Focusing on reunification, these programs provide support by drawing on the firsthand experiences of individuals who have already experienced the child welfare system. Research underscores the effectiveness of these programs, indicating higher rates of reunification among parents who participate compared to those who do not. The brief covers several aspects of parent partner programs: - How parents benefit - What research says - How parent partner programs are structured - How parent partner programs are funded - What to consider during implementation The brief also highlights three parent partner programs: Parents Anonymous, the Kentucky Sobriety Treatment and Recovery Team (START) Program, and Iowa's Parent Partner Program. These initiatives offer tailored support and resources to parents, empowering them to navigate the complexities of the child welfare system and work toward reunification: - Parents Anonymous offers support groups, parent partner services, and helpline support to parents and caregivers facing challenges in an effort to mitigate the impact of and prevent adverse childhood experiences. - The Kentucky START Program pairs child welfare workers and family mentors to work with families to provide quick access to intensive substance use treatment. Decision-making involves all team members, focusing on child safety, permanency, and parental sobriety. - Iowa's Parent Partner Program matches parents involved in the system with mentors who have successfully navigated similar challenges. The program seeks to help families access community resources. Each mentor commits to working with a family for 7 to 10 hours monthly, with up to 15 parents per mentor. Research shows that all three programs produced positive outcomes. Parents Anonymous participants were significantly less likely to have a subsequent child maltreatment referral and substantiated maltreatment finding. Participants in both the Kentucky START Program and Iowa's Parent Partner Program showed higher rates of reunification compared to those who were not in the program. Visit the Casey Family Programs website to read How Do Parent Partner Programs Instill Hope and Support Prevention and Reunification? For more information on the importance of implementing parent voice in child welfare and early childhood systems, read "New Resource Emphasizes Value of Parent Voice" from the April 2024 edition of Children's Bureau Express. - Kin-Finding Toolkit Provides Best Practices for Connecting Youth With Kin Kin-Finding Toolkit Provides Best Practices for Connecting Youth With Kin The benefits of kinship care placements and strong connections with kin are well-studied in child welfare. However, it can be challenging for child welfare agencies to identify and connect with extended family members. Recognizing these challenges, the Grandfamilies and Kinship Support Network released a kin-finding toolkit to help agencies increase their kin placement rates. The ideas and resources were compiled from more than 35 child welfare agencies across the country. The toolkit provides tools, strategies, and information about 22 promising kin-finding practices and how agencies can implement the practices. Examples of these practices include the following: - Ask youth about their kin and use tools like genograms and heart maps to identify a youth's important relationships. - Use an expansive legal definition of kin and leverage the court system to encourage kin-finding. - Use social media to find kin as well as a variety of contact methods. - Involve kin prior to removal and make a plan to keep youth connected to their supportive adults. - Make keeping in touch with kin a formal foster family responsibility. - Make sure kin have a robust presence at meetings. - Use methods like "Extreme Family Finding" and never stop looking for kin. Explore the toolkit for more details about the promising practices to promote and increase kin-first culture in child welfare. - New Resource Helps Support LGBTQ+ Youth in School, Health, and Child Welfare Settings New Resource Helps Support LGBTQ+ Youth in School, Health, and Child Welfare Settings The Center for the Study of Social Policy and the National SOGIE Center released a frequently asked questions brief to help professionals in behavioral health, child welfare, and educational settings support youth who identify as LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or other gender or sexual identity). The brief explores common legal challenges associated with working with LGBTQ+ individuals and outlines federal protections and resources. Legal challenges associated with working with LGTBQ+ individuals may stem from anti-LGBTQ+ policies, such as prohibiting the discussion of certain topics or the use of certain words or denying services based on sexual orientation or gender identity. As professionals, it can be difficult to know how to respond to these situations. The document provides answers to eight frequently asked questions from professionals who work in behavioral health, child welfare, and school settings. Each response features recommended approaches to challenges and links to additional resources. The following are examples of the questions included: - I can't talk to young people about sexual orientation or gender identity and expression unless I get written permission from their families. What can I do? - Can I write a letter of support for gender-affirming treatment if my state or locality is debating whether affirming care is "abuse"? - I've been instructed to use a youth's legal name on documentation instead of their affirmed or chosen name. What can I do? The brief is designed to help providers navigate complicated policy challenges related to supporting LGBTQ+ youth and their families. While it provides strategies and resources, it is important to note that the brief is not a substitute for legal advice. FAQ for Behavioral Health Providers: Supporting LGBTQ+ Youth in School, Health, and Child Welfare Settings is available on the Center for the Study of Social Policy website. - Beyond the Basics of LGBTQIA2S+ Inclusivity: Resources and Supports to Meet Child Welfare Agencies Where They Are Beyond the Basics of LGBTQIA2S+ Inclusivity: Resources and Supports to Meet Child Welfare Agencies Where They Are Written by the Capacity Building Center for States Children and young people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex, asexual, Two-Spirit, or other gender or sexual identity (LGBTQIA2S+) are disproportionately represented in the child welfare system (Capacity Building Center for States, 2023). This calls on providers across the child welfare network to respond, but there is no one-size-fits-all solution when it comes to progress toward more inclusive LGBTQIA2S+ policies and practices for individual child welfare agencies. Some agencies may just be getting started, while others may have many years of experience developing and implementing inclusive policies and practices. The political climates of the states in which the child welfare agencies operate may also contribute to the disparity in policies and practices among jurisdictions. While the number of pro-equality bills enacted in 2023 more than doubled, the rise of anti-LGBTQIA2S+ health and safety bills nearly quadrupled (Human Rights Campaign, 2024). As a result, a wide variety of resources is needed, especially for those agencies looking to advance their knowledge and practice related to the needs of LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people beyond foundational awareness. This curated collection of resources can help meet agencies where they are—regardless of levels of experience, progress toward more inclusive practices and policies, or political climates—to help them create and sustain more inclusive environments for LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families. Staff Training Child welfare agencies seeking to progress beyond awareness of LGBTQIA2S+ information and challenges can start by offering staff training designed to raise cultural competencies and antidiscrimination requirements (Human Rights Campaign, 2023). The Capacity Building Center for States (Center for States) provides practical information about the needs and challenges faced by LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people at child welfare agencies, including helping agencies do the following: - Understand where they are in providing an affirming culture and climate for LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families - Learn how to hold frank and open conversations with staff and caregivers regularly to create a safe and affirming environment for LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people - Make plans for improving the well-being of LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people Creating an Affirming Culture and Climate for LGBTQIA2S+ Children and Young People in Child Welfare is a Center for States resource to assess agency culture and climate for LGBTQIA2S+ people and learn how to hold frank conversations about LGBTQIA2S+ topics with staff and caregivers. The Center for States also has resources to help agencies create a more affirming culture and climate, increase authentic engagement with families and young people, and engage a diverse and inclusive team, as well as tools to support agencies with serving LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families and implement a more inclusive agency climate for these populations. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services offers training through the National LGBTQIA+ Health Education Center, which includes numerous learning resources such as webinars, publications, learning modules, toolkits, videos, and a glossary (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d.). The Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s All Children - All Families is a resource for "child welfare agencies seeking training, technical assistance, and model policies for improving practice" when working with LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people (Human Rights Campaign, 2023). It has established benchmarks of LGBTQ+ inclusion that consider the realities of different levels of progress toward inclusive child welfare policies. Its three levels—building foundation for inclusion, solid foundation for inclusion, and innovative inclusion—progress from basics like improving inclusivity in forms, paperwork, and messaging to intermediate steps like establishing sustainable practices for both young people and parents to advanced steps like serving as inclusivity allies and leaders in the broader community (Human Rights Campaign, 2023). Agencies can participate in the All Children – All Families Agency Self-Assessment (free) or learn more about the National Training Program (fee for service at a sliding scale) (Human Rights Campaign, n.d.). Substance Abuse and Mental Health Supports Agencies that have moved beyond the basics may be considering implementing more intersectional supports, such as those around substance abuse and mental health. The Center for States has resources that prioritize cross-system partnerships and ensure children and young people receive vital mental health services. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration offers a variety of training curricula and resources, such as A Provider’s Introduction to Substance Abuse Treatment for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Individuals; A Practitioner’s Resource Guide: Helping Families to Support Their LGBT Children; and Helping Families Support Their Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Children (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, n.d.). A particularly important mental health concern for LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people is the risk of suicide. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people aged 10 to 14 and the third leading cause among those aged 15 to 24. LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people are more than four times as likely to attempt suicide as their peers (The Trevor Project, 2024). The Trevor Project, a national organization dedicated to ending suicide among LGBTQIA2S+ young people, provides crisis services, research, education and public awareness, and advocacy. The Trevor Project's CARE (Connect, Accept, Respond, Empower) is an interactive and intensive suicide-prevention training that provides adults, including child welfare professionals, kindergarten–12 school staff and educators, higher education staff and faculty, and health-care professionals with an overview of suicide among LGBTQIA2S+ children and young people and "the different environmental stressors that contribute to their heightened risk for suicide" (The Trevor Project, n.d.). Child welfare professionals can promote greater inclusivity for LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families in myriad ways. Whether an agency is just getting started on its journey toward more inclusive practices and culture or seeking ways to add to existing services, numerous resources and organizations are ready to meet them where they are to provide a more welcoming child welfare system for all. Resources The following Center for States resources can help agencies create an affirming culture and climate for LGBTQIA2S+ young people and families: - Becoming a Family-Focused System (resource series) - Creating an Affirming Culture and Climate for LGBTQIA2S+ Children and Young People in Child Welfare (resource) - Change and Implementation in Practice: Teaming (resource collection) - Creating LGBTQ-Affirming Agencies (video and discussion guide) - Toolkit to Support Child Welfare Agencies in Serving LGBTQ Children, Youth, and Families (resource collection) Additional Resources The following resources and organizations present research, data, and policy suggestions that child welfare professionals and agencies can use to create an inclusive culture for LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families: - Advocates for Youth (organization) - GLAAD (organization) - Human Rights Campaign Foundation (organization) - Indigenizing Love: A Toolkit for Native Youth to Build Inclusion (resource) - National LGBTQIA+ Health Education Center (organization) (The Fenway Institute) - The National Quality Improvement Center (QIC) on Tailored Services, Placement Stability, and Permanency for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, and Two-Spirit (LGBTQ2S) Children and Youth in Foster Care (organization) - National SOGIE Center (organization) - The Trevor Project (organization) - Youth Move National Peer Center Issue Brief: Binary Youth in Nonbinary Systems, Part I and Part II (resource) References Capacity Building Center for States. (2023). Creating an affirming culture and climate for LGBTQIA2S+ children, young people, and families in child welfare. https://cbexpress.acf.hhs.gov/article/2023/october/creating-an-affirming-culture-and-climate-for-lgbtqia2s-children-young-people-and-families-in-child-welfare/38c2b17b1b7cf110145dedf7624bcb4c Human Rights Campaign. (n.d.). All Children - All Families: Participation process. https://www.thehrcfoundation.org/professional-resources/participating-in-all-children-all-families-2 Human Rights Campaign. (2023). The state of LGBTQ+ inclusion in child welfare: 2023 change-makers report. https://hrc-prod-requests.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/ACAF-2023-Report-Final-V5-JS.pdf Human Rights Campaign. (2024). 2023 state equality index. https://reports.hrc.org/2023-state-equality-index Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (n.d.). Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+). https://www.samhsa.gov/behavioral-health-equity/lgbtqi The Trevor Project. (n.d.). LGBTQ+ suicide prevention & sensitivity training. https://www.thetrevorproject.org/care-training/ The Trevor Project. (2024). Facts about suicide among LGBTQ+ young people. https://www.thetrevorproject.org/resources/article/facts-about-lgbtq-youth-suicide/ U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (n.d.). LGBTQI+ resources. https://www.hhs.gov/programs/topic-sites/lgbtqi/index.html Resources In this section, we present interesting resources, such as websites, videos, journals, funding or scholarship opportunities, or other materials, that can be used in the field or with families. - Summer Ideas for Youth in Foster or Adoptive Homes Summer Ideas for Youth in Foster or Adoptive Homes It's June—the start of summer and, for many school systems, the beginning of summer break. While this is an exciting time for many children, youth, and families, summer can be a daunting season for new foster and adoptive parents who may face a variety of unknowns and challenges. A blog post from AdoptUSKids seeks to address some of this uncertainty with information and guidance for foster and adoptive parents on engaging and caring for children and youth during the summer months. The article explains how transitions in schedule can affect children who have experienced trauma and follows with an overview of some general options and considerations related to child care, summer camps, family vacations, and more. To learn more, read "Summer Ideas for Kids in Foster Care and Adoptive Homes" on the AdoptUSKids website. - Free InReach Platform Matches LGBTQ+ People With Verified Supports Free InReach Platform Matches LGBTQ+ People With Verified Supports All people deserve access to the resources and support they need to thrive. However, until recently, people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or other gender or sexual identity (LGBTQ+) facing persecution or discrimination did not have a safe and comprehensive resource platform in reach. Now, InReach—the world's first digital resource platform that matches the LGBTQ+ community with the affirming help it needs—fills this critical information gap. InReach is a free comprehensive one-stop-shop website and mobile app created by and for the diverse LGBTQ+ community. It provides on-demand access to safe and independently verified resources spanning a wide range of service types, including medical care; mental health care; legal help; food, housing, and shelter; education and employment; community support; spiritual support; trans-focused services; transportation; and more. To learn more about InReach, including its current and future capabilities, visit the InReach website. Training and Conferences Find trainings, workshops, webinars, and other opportunities for professionals and families to learn about how to improve the lives of children and youth as well as a listing of upcoming events and conferences. - Free e-Learnings Cover Promising Practices in Serving LGBTQ+ Children, Youth and Families Free e-Learnings Cover Promising Practices in Serving LGBTQ+ Children, Youth and Families The Human Rights Campaign Foundation's All Children - All Families program provides educational resources and training and technical assistance on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex, asexual, Two-Spirit, or other gender or sexual identity (LGBTQIA2S+) inclusion for child welfare systems. The free online learning archive of recorded webinars provides foundational and special-topic learning opportunities for LGBTQ+ youth, LGBTQ+ parents and caregivers, families, child welfare professionals, agency leadership, and policymakers. A selection of available titles follows: - "Best Practices in Serving LGBTQ+ Parents" - "Best Practices for Serving LGBTQ+ Youth" - "Recruiting Affirming Foster & Adoptive Parents for LGBTQ+ Youth" - "Native & Indigenous LGBTQIA2S+ Youth in Child Welfare" - "Supporting Trans & Gender-Expansive Youth" - "Using a Racial Equity Lens: Best Practices for Black & Brown LGBTQIA2S+ Youth in Care" Interested individuals may also wish to register for live webinars and subscribe to the All Children – All Families monthly e-newsletter. For more information, visit the program website. - Grandfamilies 101 Workshop Grandfamilies 101 Workshop A new workshop and toolkit from the Grandfamilies & Kinship Support Network provides an overview of the issues and challenges grandfamilies and kinship families often encounter, with an emphasis on their legal, educational, and financial needs. It was developed for use by organizations and professionals who work with grandparent and kinship caregivers and would benefit from learning more about the unique strengths and needs of these families. The free 90-minute workshop lesson plan, which can be completed in one session or divided into shorter modules, includes an introductory data snapshot of kinship and grandfamilies; learning goals; agenda and planning materials; and a variety of topical activities, handouts, and more. Supplemental presentation slides and web and video resources are also available. Access the workshop Grandfamilies 101: What Professionals Partnering With Grandfamilies Need to Know on the Grandfamilies & Kinship Support Network website. - Conferences Conferences Upcoming conferences and events on child welfare and adoption include the following: June - "An Overview of the Post-Adoption Center and our Services" National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support Virtual, June 4 - APHSA National Human Services Summit 2024 American Public Human Services Association (APHSA) Arlington, VA, June 9–12 - APSAC's 31st Colloquium American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children (APSAC) New Orleans, LA, June 9–13 - "Culturally Competent Care" Fostering Media Connections: Youth Voices Rising Virtual, June 11 - Mental Health Needs of Teens Post-Permanency National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support Virtual, June 12 - 53rd NFPA Education Conference National Foster Parent Association (NFPA) Reston, VA, June 21–23 - National Research Conference on Early Childhood 2024 National Research Conference on Early Childhood Arlington, VA, June 24–26 - National Adoption Conference National Council for Adoption Fort Worth, TX, June 26–28 July - FFTA 38th Annual Conference Family Focused Treatment Association (FFTA) Denver, CO, July 7–10 - "When to Co/Share Parenting in Kinship Families Who Have Adopted or Obtained Guardianship" National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support Virtual, July 11 - "An In-Depth Look at Technical Assistance Available to States, Tribal Nations, and Territories" National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support Virtual, July 16 - 87th Annual NCFCJ Conference National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges (NCFCJ) Phoenix, AZ, July 21–24 - "Responding to Prenatal Alcohol and Other Substance Exposures: FASD Assessment and Intervention" Child Welfare League of America (CWLA) Virtual, July 24 - ZERO TO THREE LEARN Conference ZERO TO THREE Long Beach, CA, July 31–August 1 August - "Contents of the Resource Library" National Center for Enhanced Post-Adoption Support Virtual, August 6 - "Responding to Prenatal Alcohol and Other Substance Exposures: Multi-System Collaboration and Family Care Plans" CWLA Virtual, August 7 - Intentional Integration: How to Identify and Support Parents with Co-Occurring Disorders Center for Children and Family Futures Virtual, August 8 - NACC's 47th National Child Welfare Law Conference National Association of Counsel for Children (NACC) Salt Lake City, UT, and Virtual, August 12–14 - "An Overview of the Post-Adoption Center and our Services"