June 2024Vol. 25, No. 5New Resource Helps Support LGBTQ+ Youth in School, Health, and Child Welfare Settings The Center for the Study of Social Policy and the National SOGIE Center released a frequently asked questions brief to help professionals in behavioral health, child welfare, and educational settings support youth who identify as LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or other gender or sexual identity). The brief explores common legal challenges associated with working with LGBTQ+ individuals and outlines federal protections and resources. Legal challenges associated with working with LGTBQ+ individuals may stem from anti-LGBTQ+ policies, such as prohibiting the discussion of certain topics or the use of certain words or denying services based on sexual orientation or gender identity. As professionals, it can be difficult to know how to respond to these situations. The document provides answers to eight frequently asked questions from professionals who work in behavioral health, child welfare, and school settings. Each response features recommended approaches to challenges and links to additional resources. The following are examples of the questions included: I can't talk to young people about sexual orientation or gender identity and expression unless I get written permission from their families. What can I do? - Can I write a letter of support for gender-affirming treatment if my state or locality is debating whether affirming care is "abuse"? - I've been instructed to use a youth's legal name on documentation instead of their affirmed or chosen name. What can I do? - The brief is designed to help providers navigate complicated policy challenges related to supporting LGBTQ+ youth and their families. While it provides strategies and resources, it is important to note that the brief is not a substitute for legal advice. FAQ for Behavioral Health Providers: Supporting LGBTQ+ Youth in School, Health, and Child Welfare Settings is available on the Center for the Study of Social Policy website.