November 2024Vol. 25, No. 9Creating an Inclusive Organizational Culture to Support LGBTQ+ Youth A recent webinar from the Center for Juvenile Justice Reform (CJJR) within the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University presents a discussion of capstone projects from its certificate program for supporting youth who are LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or other gender or sexual identity). The projects focused on creating inclusive cultures for LGBTQ+ youth in their home communities. LGBTQ+ children and youth face a lot of unique challenges—for example, they are more likely to be bullied or rejected by others, including their own family, which can lead to higher rates of running away and truancy. They also often receive more severe punishments at school and in secure facilities or are held in secure detention for relatively minor offenses. It is essential to create a safe, affirming, and inclusive environment for these youth. Panelists discussed the experiences, challenges, and lessons learned from justice agencies and community organizations that have created supportive environments for LGBTQ+ youth. One featured project focused on reducing homelessness rates for LGBTQ+ young adults by reuniting them with their families. Faith-based communities were a core partnership with the program, and training and understanding conversations with church leaders coupled with youth-driven listening sessions were an important step in creating buy-in and affirming environments. The other featured project worked at a systemic level to create a more understanding environment that considered the holistic identities of youth to better meet their needs. Panelists discussed strategies for identifying and engaging the right partners at different levels to create a well-represented team, their two-tier approach to training, and the importance of valuing and involving the voices of those with lived experience. Panelists addressed how they created spaces in which people felt comfortable hearing new ideas and approaches—even if they were initially hesitant about new strategies or engaging with youth about their LGBTQ+ identities. Strategies included working with a community advocate, giving people the space to understand and process without being pushed, and providing data that concretely shows the problem. They also discussed details about what the trainings look like, how trainings were rolled out, and advice for jurisdictions, organizations, and communities looking to engage and do similar work. Watch the webinar for free on the CJJR website.