The Emerging Practices for Supporting LGBTQI+ Youth project highlights promising and emerging practices that human services agencies, programs, staff, and leaders are using to make human service delivery and prevention more welcoming and accessible for LGBTQI+ young people (ages 10-24) in child welfare and juvenile justice systems, as well as those experiencing homelessness, and those seeking s LGBTQ Reports Displaying 1 - 9 of 9. 10 per page. Page 1.Advanced Search ASPE Issue Brief, Webinar Emerging Practices for Supporting LGBTQI+ Young People Across Human Services Programs ASPE Issue Brief, Guide Recruiting Individuals with Lived Experience This guide highlights questions for health and human services staff to consider and discuss as a team before recruiting individuals with lived experience, as well as key content to consider including in outreach materials. ASPE Issue Brief, Guide Strategies to Equitably Identify People with Lived Experience This tool highlights concrete strategies that health and human services staff can use to help equitably identify people with lived experience to engage. ASPE Issue Brief, Guide What Does it Look Like to Equitably Engage People with Lived Experience? This tool contrasts components of ideal, equitable engagements with components of inequitable engagements, which health and human services staff can use to identify opportunities to strengthen efforts to engage people with lived experience. Visualization What is Lived Experience? This infographic describes key elements of lived experience in the context of health and human services work, and why engaging people with lived experience is essential to advancing equity. Related Products: Research Summary The Affordable Care Act and Its Accomplishments The Affordable Care Act (ACA) was signed into law on March 23, 2010. Since then, the law has led to an historic expansion of health insurance coverage across all states and all demographic groups within the U.S. This Briefing Book features key findings from two dozen reports published in 2021-2022. ASPE Issue Brief Health Insurance Coverage and Access to Care for LGBTQ+ Individuals: Recent Trends and Key Challenges This Issue Brief analyzes national survey data to discuss demographic characteristics of the LGB+ community, recent trends in insurance coverage for this population, and various challenges and barriers to care faced by the broader LGBTQ+ community.Related Products Identifying and Serving LGBTQ Youth: Case Studies of Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Grantees To better understand provider experiences serving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and Questioning (LGBTQ) runaway and homeless youth, this study reports on case studies of four local agencies receiving grants from the Administration for Children and Family’s Runaway and Homeless Youth (RHY) Program.