It Gets Better A message to current and future NASA employees that it is OK to be LGBTQ, and that NASA management supports and encourages an inclusive, diverse workforce in our workplace. A message to current and future NASA employees that it is OK to be LGBTQ, and that NASA management supports and encourages an inclusive, diverse workforce in our workplace. When individuals can bring their full, authentic self to the workplace, our entire NASA workforce benefits. A decade ago, we established the Out & Allied Employee Resource Group to leverage […] This Pride Month, NASA celebrates the significant contributions of LGBTQ+ employees, respects the individuality of our employees, and recognizes their contributions to advance NASAâs priorities. We support the positive movement […] What are some skywatching highlights in June 2024? Saturn and Mars continue to dominate the a.m. sky, but they’re joined by Jupiter as the month goes on. And some tips […] Join us for a conversation in honor of National LGBTQ+ Pride Month about what it means to be an ally, understanding some of the barriers faced by the lesbian, gay, […] A message to current and future NASA employees that it is OK to be LGBTQ, and that NASA management supports and encourages an inclusive, diverse workforce in our workplace. Mars and Saturn tussle with the Moon, Mercury makes a brief a.m. appearance, East Coasters can see red giant star Antares emerge from behind the Moon, and the eta Aquariid […] NASA Kennedy Space Centerâs Associate Director Jennifer Kunz and NASA Commercial Crew Program Deputy Manager Dana Hutcherson participate in a media event at the Florida spaceport on Thursday, April 25, […] Each May, NASA commemorates Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month to recognize the significant contributions of past and present employees of AAPI descent. Each of them embody the […] Each May, NASA commemorates AAPI Heritage Month to recognize the significant contributions of the Asian and Pacific Islander community. This year, NASA Administrator Sen. Bill Nelson and NASA astronauts Raja […] NASA’s Jonny Kim and Anita Dey sit down with historian Brian Odom to discuss how NASA is making the Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander community visible to the world, […] NASA astronaut Jonny Kim is a member of the Artemis Team, a select group of astronauts charged with focusing on the development and training efforts for early Artemis missions.