Due to the state of emergency for all of Georgia, declared by Governor Brian Kemp, and the projected path of Hurricane Helene, the annual AIDS Walk Atlanta Music Festival & 5k Run scheduled forÂ Saturday, September 28, 2024,Â at Piedmont Park has been postponed. Considering the safety of our team members and those of our sub-teams, friends and family, staff and our volunteers, even if the sun shines this weekend, the conditions at the park would not be favorable for the AIDS Walk producers to host the event. While the rain may come, and the winds may blow, AID Atlanta is built on the solid support of our friends and family like you. We ask you to please continue with your fundraising efforts. Information on alternative dates and fundraising awards will come from AIDS Walk producers to your email. Please take care and be safe as we navigate storm Helene! Have Questions? Georgia AIDS and STI Info Line A confidential and anonymous resource service. Our specialists provide accurate, current, and comprehensive information. HIV & AIDS FAQs Answers to common questions about HIV and AIDS, including transmission, risks and facts about treatment. Upcoming Events Help Researchers Understand Violence in The LGBTQ+ Community Everyone deserves to feel safe in their community. Help researchers at NORC understand the experiences of violence among LGBTQ+ adults in your community by participating in a 20-minute web survey. To Participate in the study, you must be a person who identifies as LGBTQ+ over the age of 18 and live in the Atlanta area. Individuals who are eligible for the survey will receive a $10 Amazon gift card for participating. Serving Atlanta of funding goes to our programs & services patients received clinical care for HIV Help us in our mission to serve Atlanta Stay Informed Get the latest AID Atlanta News & Updates in your inbox! “Get Fired Up Up” and join us at AID Atlanta for our next Community Advisory Board (CAB)… US funding has resulted in treatment access for well over 20 million individuals, including at least half… Resources Locations Midtown - Newnan -