Wright-Patt Pride Month events celebrate diversity, promote inclusion Published May 23, 2024 By Megan Mudersbach 88th Air Base Wing Public Affairs Updated May 31, 2024 The 88th Air Base Wing and special observance committee recognizes LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The 88th Air Base Wing will host a series of Pride Month events throughout the end of May and the month of June to celebrate and recognize the diversity of civilian employees and service members across the Department of Defense. Events will include an educational seminar, kickball tournament and a 4K run/walk. This year’s theme is “Building a Culture of Inclusion,” which echoes the Department of the Air Force’s commitment to provide a professional, innovative and globally competitive work environment where all qualified Americans can serve their country. “We want these events to encourage people to take part in fostering an inclusion mindset,” Master Sgt. Darcy Waugaman, committee member and chief of Infrastructure Operations, 88th Communications Squadron, said. “We want to create an environment that’s comfortable to get to know one another and be a safe place to ask questions.” Waugaman said she motivates everyone to surround themselves with people who are unlike them. “It helps us look outside ourselves to learn about people’s experiences and what they have gone through,” she said. “Being a part of the wing’s special observance committee, you can learn a lot no matter the observance, and it emphasizes that we are one team working together.” 88th Air Base Wing Pride Month events: May 28 – LGBTQ Education Seminar – The 88 ABW’s LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) invites all to join them from noon to 1 p.m. at the USO for a presentation on LGBTQ topics. Local community and base agencies will also have resources available. *This event is open to base personnel. June 7 – Kickball Tournament – Connect with Team Wright-Patt members and celebrate Pride Month during a free kickball tournament from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Area B Softball Fields. Sign-ups close May 31. Register your team at: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/10C094EA8AF2BA2FBC25-49103175-pride#/. For questions, email MSgt Darcy Waugaman, darcy.waugaman@us.af.mil. *This event is open to base personnel. June 28 - Fly with Pride Tie Dye 4K Run/Walk – Join us for a free 4K run/walk from 8 to 10 a.m. at Wright State University parking lot 16 & 17 to celebrate Pride Month. Registration is required. Register at: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/60B0944AAAF2EA0FE3-49251480-thewright?useFullSite=true#/. Location: 3640 Colonel Glen Highway, Fairborn, OH 45324. For questions, email SSgt Gaige Buster, gaige.buster@us.af.mil, TSgt Robert Laichalk, robert.laichalk@us.af.mil, and MSgt Darcy Waugaman, darcy.waugaman@us.af.mil *This event is open to local and base communities. If you are interested in getting involved with a special observance committee, contact EEO Strategy and Integration at 88ABW.DE.ORG@US.AF.MIL. For more information about the AEP, visit https://www.wpafb.af.mil/Units/DEIA/AEP/. The 88th Air Base Wing is hosting a Kickball Tournament on June 7, 2024 at the Area B Softball Fields. The tournament is part of a collection of events hosted by the special observances committee for LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res The 88th Air Base Wing and Wright State University is hosting a Fly with Pride Tie Dye 4K run/walk on June28, 2024 at Wright State University, 3640 Colonel Glen Highway, Fairborn, OH 45324. The event is part of a collection of events hosted by the special observances committee for LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res