HILL AIR FORCE BASE – Each June, communities gather and organize events to celebrate Pride Month, both a jubilant communal celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and dignity. During LGBTQ+ Pride Month, we recognize the resilience and determination of the many individuals who are fighting to live freely and authentically. In doing so, they are opening hearts and minds and laying the foundation for a more just and equitable America. While Pride is something to be celebrated all year, the month of June was designated ‘Pride Month’ to commemorate the Stonewall uprising that occurred in June 1969, sparking a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all. The first Pride March took place in June 1970, one year after the events of Stonewall. Now, 53 years later celebrating Pride has remained a time dedicated to the uplifting of LGBTQ+ voices, celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and the support of LGBTQ+ rights. This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle against discrimination and injustice. The following are just a few LGBTQ+ individuals who left a lasting impact on our society. Sally Ride – The first American woman in space and the first acknowledged gay astronaut. Ride was instrumental in her work with the robotic arm used to help put satellites in space. Along with her partner and three others, she also started the non-profit “Sally Ride Science” with the goal to promote equity and inclusion in STEM for all students. Bayard Rustin – Due to being an openly gay man, Rustin was not in the public eye, but was one of the most influential organizers during the civil rights movement and the logistical planner behind the March on Washington in 1963. A close advisor to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bayard taught him of Gandhi’s belief in non-violence and civil disobedience. He went on to focus on LGBTQ+ activism. Edith Windsor – She is known widely for her landmark Supreme Court Case which paved the way for marriage equality. However, her notable contributions as a tech pioneer are far less known. Windsor became the senior systems programmer for IBM due to her top-notch debugging skills and coding abilities and later became president of a PC consulting firm that specialized in major software development projects. She was pivotal in the fight for marriage equality and made major strides in the tech industry. Additionally, it is equally, if not more important to recognize the LGBTQ+ people in our own lives who make a difference to each of us individually every single day. This year’s theme, “Diversity Creates Community,” speaks to the belief that the diversity of the United States is unquestionably one of our greatest strengths. Rather than letting differences divide us, we should recognize that we are stronger together. Harvey Milk, a notable figure in the LGBTQ+ community said it well “All people regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential.” Together we can create a more effective and inclusive community here on Hill AFB and wherever we may go. Hill AFB events Join us this month as we celebrate the contributions, sacrifices, and achievements of the LGBTQ+ community. • June 1 | 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. | Pride Month Opening Event with information booth and food truck(s) at the AAFES Base Exchange. • June 12 | 11:45 a.m. to 2 p.m. | “Diversity Creates Community” Discussion Panel at the building 1289 main conference room. Free lunch provided by the Hill AFB Chapel. ZoomGov link will provided at a later date. • June 21 | 8 a.m. | 5K Color Fun Run starting at the Warrior Fitness Center. Volunteers to staff water/color stations are still needed. • June 29 | 1-2 p.m. |Pride Month Mentorship Panel. ZoomGov link will be provided at a later date. You will also see some employee spotlights throughout the month on Hill’s social media channels, highlighting Hill AFB civilian employees and military members. For more information, call the DEIA office at 801-777-5443 or email 75ABW.DEIA.Workflow@us.af.mil.