PHILADELPHIA – Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support hosted an event in honor of the LGBTQ+ service members and defense department personnel on July 12, 2023, in Philadelphia. Kishayra J. Lambert, DLA Troop Support Deputy commander welcomed the attendees of the event to celebrate the contributions that the LGBTQ+ community has made to American history, society, and culture. “Our diverse talent pool is unquestionably one of our greatest strengths,” said Lambert. “When we foster an environment of respect where all qualified candidates can perform at their highest potential—free from discrimination—it is easier to do our job to support the warfighter’s mission.” Lambert introduced this event’s keynote speaker, Armando Trull, a multiple Emmy award-winning bilingual multimedia communications strategist, who has spent his journalism career covering a wide gamut of issues from hurricanes to refugee camps, and wars to the Olympics. “It’s important to understand that the LGBTQ people in the United States are part of other groups that that did not see themselves as Americans in many ways,” Trull said. “LGBTQ+ people began to see how Black people and women went about the struggle to achieve the promised land of American equality—LGBTQ+ people also wanted to be in that.” Trull continued to highlight that the struggles that LGBTQ+ persons face are not isolated to LGBTQ+ specific issues and that everyone can find common ground on the path towards equality. “I think—as we look at what we want to do now—it's important for us to understand that still, there can be barriers to living openly for LGBTQ+ people,” said Trull. “That's why pride events like this are important, to allow people to hear and to see that this isn't just an isolated thing—that it's happened to other groups.” The defense department’s theme for the 2023 Pride Month of June was: equality without exception. “This June, the Nation celebrated LGBTQ+ Pride month and here at DLA Troop Support we won’t let the year go by without our own contribution,” Lambert said. “Events such as these prove our commitment to diversity and inclusion—of widening freedom, not deepening discrimination—as we strive to serve the greatest fighting force in the world. This event was hosted by DLA Troop Support’s Equal Employment Opportunity Advisory committee in coordination with the Naval Supply Systems Command Weapons Systems Support’s EEOA committee.