During the month of June, the Defense Department and DLA are honoring the contributions of all military and civilian personnel with the theme, “Pride in All Who Serve—A Place for All,” which serves as a powerful statement that encapsulates the spirit of unity and acceptance throughout the DOD. Employee Spotlight articles during the month will highlight the mission contributions and personalities of some in the agency who identify as LGBTQ+. Johanna White is a call center agent at DLA’s Customer Interaction Center in Battle Creek, Michigan. Can you tell us about yourself? I’m 46. I love to role play. Hence the 1960’s look in the photo. Describe your job in a sentence or two. I order items for the warfighter. This includes uniforms, medication, Meals Ready-to-Eat, and parts for planes and ships. We also work closely with vendors that provide for the military and the government. The call center is the lifeblood of the modern warfighter. How long have you worked for the federal government or contracting service? Four years. What is your favorite thing about your line of work? Helping the warfighter gives me purpose. I come from a long line of family that has done military service. This job gives me the ability to serve in a different way and I know my grandpa would be proud of me for it. What is the best piece of advice someone has given you? “It’s not personal.” What do you think about when you hear LGBTQ+ Pride Month? Freedom, love, kindness, and acceptance. When did you “come out” and was it hard? I was 30. It was the fear of rejection that scared me the most. What is one thing you’d like others to know about you being part of the LGBTQ+ community? I’m here for you. I’m not kidding. I am here for advice, shelter, and acceptance; I also can be a stand in for important events. As an ordained minister, I am here to perform ceremonies in a safe, encouraging, and supportive environment. Why is it important to you that we celebrate LGBTQ+ Pride Month? Pride gives our community a chance to have fun in a safe environment and a chance to educate. It’s also important to honor the past. What challenges do LGBTQ+ Americans face today and how can understanding history help us overcome them? There’s always something to learn from the past and it’s important to share that knowledge. The knowledge helps us to not repeat what’s happened in the past and to learn from the amazing steps forward that we’ve made as a community. Who’s your biggest influence? Maya Angelou. Name your favorite/recent book(s) you have read. Educated: a Memoir, by Tara Westover Tell us something that most people might not know about you. I paint, write poetry, and draw. I have a pet guinea pig named Penelope. What was your first job? Sir Pizza. What is your best memory of working at the Hart-Dole-Inouye Federal Center? Getting to see and explore a building with so much history. What did you want to be when you grew up? A veterinarian. Who is your hero? My Aunt Dee Dee was. If you could choose to do anything for a day, what would it be? I would go on a hiking trip in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. What is your favorite quote? “You’re braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.” What are your hobbies? I paint, write, and draw, I play Dungeons and Dragons, wear costumes and do makeup for renaissance festivals, comic conventions, and drag shows.