During the month of June, the Defense Department and DLA are honoring the contributions of all military and civilian personnel with the theme, “Pride in All Who Serve—A Place for All,” which serves as a powerful statement that encapsulates the spirit of unity and acceptance throughout the DOD. Employee Spotlight articles during the month will highlight the mission contributions and personalities of some in the agency who identify as LGBTQ+. Dan Wimsatt is a data analyst with DLA Logistics Operations in Battle Creek, Michigan. Can you tell us about yourself? I am a retired Air Force officer working for the DLA Logistics Information Services Workload Management Branch. I am the father of five sons and two grandchildren. I love to travel and am looking forward to retiring next year and spending my time relaxing and seeing the world. Describe your job in a sentence or two. I work closely with the catalogers to ensure our workload is being worked expeditiously and troubleshoot any problems that arise with the FLIS portfolio workbench. I am also responsible for creating and maintaining workload reports for both our internal and external customers. How long have you worked for the federal government? I have worked for the government in some capacity for over 40 years. What is your favorite thing about your line of work? Definitely the people I work with. I have met some very dedicated people who love their work and are dedicated to our country and our military members. What is the best piece of advice someone has given you? Treat people with dignity and respect and learn what motivates them. What do you think about when you hear LGBTQ+ Pride Month? That it’s an opportunity to educate people on the contributions LGBTQ people have made to our communities and the struggles we continue to face. When did you “come out” and was it hard? My coming out was a process. Being in the military in the 80s, and 90s, it wasn’t allowed, so I had to hide who I was. So, my coming out was done in stages. First, only to close family and friends who I could trust with my secret, then, after I retired I was able to be more open. Of course, once “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” was repealed, it made it much easier for military members to be true to themselves and serve openly. I remember when Congress voted to repeal DADT, I sat and cried remembering how difficult it was pretending to be something I wasn’t for so many years. It was a great day for America. What is one thing you’d like others to know about you being part of the LGBTQ+ community? That it doesn’t change anything about who I am as a person, I do my job with the same dedication and ability as anyone. It doesn’t define me any differently than being heterosexual defines others. Why is it important to you that we celebrate LGBTQ+ Pride Month? Because it brings awareness to others and gives us the opportunity to celebrate the successes we have made and remind us of the challenges we continue to face. What challenges do LGBTQ+ Americans face today and how can understanding history help us overcome them? Every day we hear about another legislature that is passing some law to restrict our rights. A “Don’t Say ‘Gay’” bill, a book banning, or a school board that refuses to acknowledge a trans student. If we don’t know remember how hard we had to fight to get these rights, we will surely sit back and watch them be taken away. There are many people who would be more than happy to shove us back in the closet. Who’s your biggest influence? I don’t think I can name one person as my biggest influence. Every single person who has stood up and marched, who educated their uninformed relative or coworker, who testified before a state or federal legislature influences me. They are all heroes in my mind. What was your first job? I was a fry cook at a fast-food restaurant. What is your best memory of working here? Before my father died, he had dementia. I was allowed to go to Kentucky one week a month and telework from my parent’s home to help with his care. It spoke volumes about how this organization cares about people. I will never forget that. What did you want to be when you grew up? An accountant. Who is your hero? Harvey Milk and Barack Obama. If you could choose to do anything for a day, what would it be? Be on a beach. What is your favorite quote? That which does not kill us will surely make us stronger. What are your hobbies? DIY projects and woodworking.