During the month of June, the Defense Department and DLA are honoring the contributions of all military and civilian personnel with the theme, “Pride in All Who Serve—A Place for All,” which serves as a powerful statement that encapsulates the spirit of unity and acceptance throughout the DOD. Employee Spotlight articles during the month will highlight the mission contributions and personalities of some in the agency who identify as LGBTQ+. Charlie Fulbright is a DLA Logistics Operations program analyst in Battle Creek, Michigan. Can you tell us about yourself? I love to volunteer and be an advocate for those underrepresented. I’ve been a board member of Battle Creek Pride, Battle Creek Historic District Commission, Garden of Dreams Preschool, and am currently a board member of Battle Creek Public Schools and Michigan Association of School Boards. Giving my time to help people in need is my joy. Describe your job in a sentence or two. I work with not only our domestic catalogers, but also our international NATO partners to ensure systems, coding, and policy is correct for everybody. How long have you worked for the federal government or contracting service? Ten years federal government and seven years as a contractor. What is your favorite thing about your line of work? Being able to have good relationships with our colleagues from other nations. What is the best piece of advice someone has given you? Keep fighting and never give up. What do you think about when you hear LGBTQ+ Pride Month? I think of both celebration and remembrance. All my accomplishments regarding anything LGBTQ+ are because someone before me never gave up and kept fighting for what is right. When did you “come out” and was it hard? I came out when I was 16, a sophomore in high school (2001). You would think it was hard, but I had so many friends and family supporting me in my circle. It didn’t get hard until I went into the real world and became an adult. What is one thing you’d like others to know about you being part of the LGBTQ+ community? That I am an emotional, heart-led, loving, dedicated person first, and being gay is just an added bonus. I’ve been with my husband for almost 19 years, and just because I’m gay, it doesn’t mean I’m going to “convert” you. You can’t catch it. Why is it important to you that we celebrate LGBTQ+ Pride Month? Education! We don’t know what we don’t know. Even members of the LGBTQ+ community can learn something new about our history, our sacrifice, and what we have had to overcome. What challenges do LGBTQ+ Americans face today and how can understanding history help us overcome them? I have talked to so many people, specifically straight cisgender males who just don’t know. Education should always be at the forefront of conversation. Nowadays, it has become more political and at a legislative level. We have come a long way from Stonewall, and we are lucky to live in a country where we are not put in jail or even [killed], but it seems like it is a slow move forward. Who’s your biggest influence? My mother. Even though she is not part of the LGBTQ+ community, she is and continues to be my biggest ally. She raised me to believe that everyone matters. Everyone deserves rights, and those of us that have them should fight to share those rights, which I continue to do daily. Tell us something that most people might not know about you. I kinda like playing football. I’m not good, and I don’t like sports, but when I was growing up (pre-coming out), I would play football with the neighborhood kids. What was your first job? Ice cream scooper. What is your best memory of working here? The people! Deploying to Germany and meeting even more DLA employees from Europe who have become friends. I’m a people person. I love interacting with people, I love hearing stories, and I’m pretty sure most people know who I am in the building. What did you want to be when you grew up? A newscaster. Who is your hero? My mom. If you could choose to do anything for a day, what would it be? Become a father (but for more than just one day, LOL). What is your favorite quote? If I can help someone along the way, then my living shall not be in vain. What are your hobbies? Singing, dancing, bowling, game nights, hanging out with friends.