DLA Land and Maritime celebrates diversity at Pride Month event The Defense Federal Community celebrated LGBTQ Pride Month at the Defense Supply Center Columbus Operations Center June 6. The program was hosted by the Defense Logistics Agency Land and Maritime Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity and the LGBTQ Employment Program. This year’s theme, “Being Your Authentic Self,” encourages people to embrace who they are to empower themselves and others. “That’s what makes us stronger as a workforce, as an agency and as a nation,” said DLA Land and Maritime Deputy Commander Kenneth Watson, opening the program by highlighting why the Agency prioritizes celebrating diversity.” We share a common mission to support the Warfighter. It is through that common mission that we are bound together, through unity of purpose.” “You being here today is a reflection of your shared commitment to each other,” he continued. “To embracing a diverse workplace, and to working as a team toward mission success - equipping our Warfighters with the tools they need to defend our nation, and our democratic principles abroad.” With opening remarks concluded, attendees had the opportunity to hear from two keynote speakers: Jody Davis, an LGBTQ veteran care coordinator with the Department of Veterans Affairs, and Mark Lankford, a contracting officer for DLA Land and Maritime – both military veterans and proud members of the LGBTQ community. Each shared their personal experiences with military and federal civilian service. Davis joined the U.S. Army right after high school in 1987 and served as an armor crewman until 1995. She spoke about her service during the “don’t ask, don’t tell” era. “This basically told everyone, ‘You’ve got to be quiet. You can’t talk about your sexuality, and you can’t talk about your gender identity,’” she said. “So, what I can do now at the VA is say, ‘Please do tell us. Please let us ask you these questions, and please feel safe to [answer these questions].’” “It is a real privilege to be here and to just be authentic,” she added. “For the vast majority of my life, I hid in the shadows and felt a lot of shame and guilt for who I really was. So, having a Pride Month and being able to be here is an amazing gift.” Lankford, an Air Force veteran who came to DLA Land and Maritime in 2015 through the Pathways to Career Excellence program, also shared his experiences in the military and how the Air Force core values have been guiding principles throughout his career and to being his authentic self. “The Air Force core values are integrity first, service before self and excellence in all you do. You have integrity first. You don’t lie about who you are. That puts you in a position of degrading yourself,” he said. “I think being authentic is being authentic not only with those around you but also being authentic with yourself.” “It’s ok to be yourself – to be who you are and to be part of a team,” he added. “And I thank DLA for being very open and embracing of the LGBTQ community.” The program concluded with a video presentation of “Let the River Run” by the Columbus Gay Men’s Chorus. Defense Finance and Accounting Service LGBTQ Executive Champion Angie Oberhauser presented Davis and Lankford with mementos. DLA Land and Maritime LGBTQ Employment Program Executive Champion Julie Van Schaik provided closing remarks thanking Davis and Lankford for sharing their stories and all those involved in putting the event together. DLA Land and Maritime Contract Specialist Nancy Hunt served as Mistress of Ceremonies, Army veteran and guest singer Mark Cooke rendered the National Anthem and DLA Land and Maritime Contract Specialist Robert ‘Scott’ Humphrey delivered the invocation.