Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) Research Products & Journal Articles Browse the full list of research publications on this topic completed by the Rural Health Research Centers. Products – Freely accessible products include policy briefs, fact sheets, full reports, chartbooks, and interactive data websites. Journal Articles – Articles in peer-reviewed journals may require a subscription or affiliation with a subscribing library. For these publications, Gateway lists the article citation, a brief summary, a link to additional information and access to the full-text of the article, if available. 2023 - Access to Health Care for Transgender and Gender-Diverse Adults in Urban and Rural Areas in the United States Journal Article University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 08/2023 This study examines access to care based on gender identity in urban and rural areas, focusing on transgender and gender diverse (TGD) populations. Data came from the 2019 to 2020 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. Researchers found greater barriers to care for TGD adults, with the most frequent barriers found among rural TGD adults. - Indicators of Familial Social Support by Rurality and Gender Identity Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 03/2023 Social and emotional support from family significantly contributes to positive health outcomes. Understanding how familial social support differs for those with overlapping marginalized identities is critical to advance population health and health equity. This brief examines differences in familial social support by rurality and gender identity. - Rural School- and Community-Based Programs Supporting LGBTQ+ Youth University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 02/2023 The purpose of this case series is to highlight youth-focused and school- and community-based organizations that affirm and support LGBTQ+ individuals in their rural communities. These may serve as examples to others considering this work. 2022 - Key Informant Perspectives on Supporting Health and Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 09/2022 This policy brief presents findings from interviews with national lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ+) support and advocacy organizations regarding challenges to physical and mental health and well-being for rural LGBTQ+ individuals, as well as recommendations to meet the needs of LGBTQ+ individuals in rural areas. - Self-Rated Health Among Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Adults: Rural/Urban Differences Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 07/2022 Research has documented worse health outcomes and constrained access to care for lesbian, gay, and bisexual adults. Rural residents also experience persistent disparities in health and access to care. This policy brief examines differences in self-rated health by sexual orientation and rural/urban location. - Anxiety, Depression, and Access to Mental Health Care by Sexual Orientation and Rurality Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This policy brief addresses the research gap among rural sexual minorities by illuminating differences in mental health for two of the most common mental health disorders (depression and anxiety), as well as differences in access to health care. - Improving Access to LGBTQIA+-Friendly Care in Rural Areas University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight organizations doing exemplary work to improve access to and experiences of health care among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning, and asexual/agender (LGBTQIA+) individuals in rural communities across the U.S. - Prevalence of Chronic Conditions by Sexual Orientation and Rural-Urban Location Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This policy brief examines rates of individual chronic conditions, as well as differences in the number of chronic conditions by sexual orientation and rural-urban location. - Rural Community Organizations Building Inclusive Environments for LGBTQ+ Residents University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight rural organizations doing exemplary work to build community among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/ questioning residents, and create a more inclusive environment in their communities. - Small-Town Pride Celebrations Supporting Social Connectedness & Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight organizations in two states doing exemplary work to celebrate and affirm lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning (LGBTQ+) individuals in their rural communities through Pride events. These may serve as examples to others considering this work. - Social and Emotional Support During the COVID-19 Pandemic by Sexual Orientation and Rurality Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This brief identifies differences in social and emotional support and changes to that support during the COVID-19 pandemic by rurality and sexual orientation. - Evaluating the Rural HIV/AIDS Planning Program Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 01/2022 The purpose of this policy brief is to understand the overall experiences of the first grantee cohort (2020-21) of the Rural HIV/AIDS Planning Program. We pay particular attention to any barriers to or facilitators of successful grant implementation, and the sustainability of programs and acquisition of future funding.