From Main Street to metropolitan America, LGBTQ+-owned businesses are making a difference by enriching and diversifying their communities. The SBA recognizes that everyday impact this Pride Month. We remain steadfast in our commitment to LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs as they pursue their dreams of business ownership. The following SBA resources can be leveraged to help individuals start and grow their businesses. - LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Certification. The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) can help you get certified as an LGBTQ-owned small business. Certified businesses are in high demand by NGLCC Corporate Partners seeking to increase their spend with the LGBTQ+ community. They also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship, training, and other business development resources after one year. - SBA Resource Partners. No- or low-cost counseling, training, technical assistance, and more can be found through the SBA’s 1,600-plus-strong network of resource partners. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to connect with Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) and SCORE for expert advising and mentorship. There are also Veterans Business Outreach Centers and Women’s Business Centers, which specialize in services for vetrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs respectively. - SBA-Guaranteed Loans. SBA funding programs work to expand access to capital for groups that may have a history of being financially underserved. SBA-guaranteed loans reduce lender risk and make it possible for owners to obtain funding with competitive terms, lower down payments, and flexible overhead requirements. - 8(a) Business Development Program. Eligible entrepreneurs who are socially disadvantaged may receive business training and government contracting assistance through the SBA’s 8(a) Business Development Program. Participating businesses benefit from coaching and technical assistance designed to help them compete more effectively in the American economy. Building an economy that works for everyone remains a top priority for the SBA. To that end, we look forward to lifting up the LGBTQ+ business community this Pride Month and beyond. Find out what events are planned throughout the month of June at sba.gov/events.