Content SBA celebrates Pride Month LGBTQ+ businesses in the United States contribute an estimated $1.7 trillion to America's economy, creating thousands of new jobs each year. Every June, SBA celebrates the LGBTQ+ innovators and entrepreneurs who provide essential services and diversify our communities. Pride timeline Chicago, 1924. The Society for Human Rights opens in Chicago, the first LGBTQ+ rights organization in the country. - New York City, 1930. The Stonewall Inn opens its doors in the heart of Greenwich Village in lower Manhattan. - San Francisco, 1956. The Ladder, the first nationally distributed lesbian publication, begins in San Francisco. - New York City, 1967. The Oscar Wilde Memorial Bookstore, the first bookstore devoted to gay and lesbian authors, opens in New York City. - San Francisco, 1972. Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in the history of California, opens Castro Camera. - Nationwide, 2004. The National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce creates best-in-class diversity certification program for LGBTQ+ businesses. - Nationwide, 2014. SBA hosts the Many Faces. One Dream. tour to empower LGBTQ+ communities of color. - San Rafael, 2016. SBA names Equator Coffee as the Small Business of the Year, the first LGBTQ+ owned business to win the honor. - Nationwide, 2020. The U.S. Supreme Court rules that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protects gay, lesbian, and transgender employees from discrimination based on sex. - Start or grow your business SBA helps entrepreneurs with access to capital, mentorship, and business opportunities. The following resources will help you get started: Events Explore upcoming events of interest to LGBTQ+ small business owners. More resources LGBTQ+ Resources in Business and the Workplace from the Library of Congress - Resources on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Workplace Rights from the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission - Protecting the Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Intersex Individuals from the Department of Justice -