This tip sheet from the NRC4Tribes and Tribal Star offers support for Native children and youth who may be Two-Spirit and/or LGBTQ to help them feel connected to resources and communities. Lenny Hayes and Sandy White Hawk developed this presentation for a workshop at the 2017 NICWA conference. The Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) of 1978 is one of the key components to protecting the rights and culture of American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) children and families. Unfortunately, not all child welfare caseworkers are aware of how to apply ICWA or the... Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning/queer (LGBTQ) youth and their families live in all regions of the state, yet are often invisible to communities and institutions, including the child welfare system. LGBTQ youth and their families have strengths and... The Alaska Resilience Initiative promotes healthy communities and works to end child maltreatment. Leaders of this initiative hosted a 2016 gathering to ensure Alaska Native voices were heard. Participants provided recommendations on how to make existing... From the National Indigenous Womenâs Resource Center, this webinar shares information on ACEs and highlights evidence based and promising practices for working with children exposed to violence. Traditional and community-based efforts to address the problem are... This academic article focuses on the adverse childhood experiences and outcomes among American Indians and Alaska Natives. The researchers found that American Indian and Alaska Native children are significantly more likely to have adverse childhood... This 2017 study examines the relationship between mothersâ ACEs and developmental risks for their own children. Finding a significant association, the need to address intergenerational trauma is highlighted. Presented by Dolores Subia BigFoot, this 2013 webinar is part of a series on childhood trauma in Indian Country. This webinar presented findings from the Kaiser Permanente Study and adverse childhood experiences with a focus on American Indian and Alaska Native...