Course Details ML016 Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion in Housing and Community Development Programs - Interactive Webinar Training The call for equity has never been louder. Yet we are far from the aspirational goal of equal access to essential resources and opportunities for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and have other gender and sexual identities (LGBTQ+). That reality is amplified for LGBTQ+ people with intersecting identities that have been historically blocked from financial opportunities—such as youth, seniors, and Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and Asian people. In general, LGBTQ+ people experience relatively high rates of housing and financial insecurity over their lives due to inconsistent legal protections, discrimination, and other systemic barriers. Inclusive housing and community development programs are vital for the LGBTQ+ community’s well-being and long-term financial security. To meet the needs of the community, programs need to adapt their approaches in ways that are culturally responsive and relevant. In this 90-minute interactive webinar, you will gain valuable skills and resources, laying the groundwork for being more inclusive of the LGBTQ+ community. Find out what the nuanced needs of the community are. Become more culturally aware. Learn how to provide general and tailored programs and solutions, all while heeding the call for equity. The webinar training will last 90 minutes and include resource materials, check-and-reflect activities, interactive polling, and participant Q&A with the faculty. A quiz will open at the conclusion of the session which you must pass in order to obtain a certificate and credit toward continuing education hours. Participants can access the training site upon registration and begin looking at the available resources prior to the live online training session. This course provides 1.5 continuing education hours. Course Length: 1/4 Days Tuition: $115.0 Course counts toward a professional certificate (PCP): No