Recent Posts Spectrum Celebrates Pride – What does Pride mean to you? - Transgender Day of Visibility - Argonne and Spectrum Remember Lives Lost in the LGBTQI+ Community during Transgender day of Remembrance - Argonne and Spectrum Observe Transgender Day of Visibility (TDoV) - Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 - - Tag Cloud Meta Category Archives: Uncategorized Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 Please join us for the March Spectrum meeting Thursday, March 12th! Location: Building 241 room C201 Time: Noon to 1pm Spectrum meetings are open to all involved in the work of the laboratory. We are an inclusive community made … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday June 13 Please join us for the June Spectrum meeting tomorrow, June 13! Location: Building 241 room C201 Time: Noon to 1pm Spectrum meetings are open to all involved in the work of the laboratory. We are an inclusive community made up … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday June 13 Asexuality Awareness In recognition of Asexuality Awareness Week, members of Spectrum have developed this overview article to help explain and define what asexuality means and how it fits into the broader concepts of gender identity and sexual orientation. What Is Asexuality? Merriam-Webster … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Asexuality Awareness Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 9, 2018 Please join us for Spectrum’s monthly meeting! Date: Thursday, August 9, 2018 Time: Noon – 1PM Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) All Argonne, DOE and UChicago employees are welcome to participate. We are … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 9, 2018 LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion Spectrum will be hosting two events regarding SafeZones, engagement, and LGBTQ inclusivity and dialog. These events will focus on helping people become effective educators and to engage in conversation. The lunch-and-learn will focus on exposing and socializing the idea of SafeZones, … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Tagged LGBTQ Inclusivity, SafeZone Comments Off on LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, October 12th Join us for Spectrum’s Monthly Meeting Date: Thursday, October 12th 2017 Time: noon – 1 p.m. Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) All Argonne, DOE and UChicago employees are welcome to participate. We are … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, October 12th Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 10 Join us for Spectrum’s Monthly Meeting Date: Thursday, August 10 2017 Time: noon – 1 p.m. Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) Our first meeting in the new location. All Argonne, DOE and UChicago … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 10 October is LGBT History Month During LGBT History Month, Equality Forum will be featuring a series of LGBT icons. Equality Forum’s mission is to advance national and international lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) civil rights through education. Here at Argonne, you can join our … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on October is LGBT History Month About Us Spectrum is an employee resource group (ERG) dedicated to building awareness and providing resources for those in the laboratory community who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, agender, or allies to their LGBTQIA+ peers. Spectrum also … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on About Us