Transgender Day of Visibility (TGDoV) is celebrated on March 31st and is dedicated to celebrating the transgender community as well as raising awareness of the discrimination faced by transgender people every day. Spectrum celebrates the achievements of transgender scientists and engineers whose contributions have brought us semiconductor integration (Lynn Conway), understanding of the effects of climate change on corals (Shayle Matsuda), a better understanding of the human brain (Benn Barres), email attachments (Mary Ann Horton), and at Argonne, the next generation network infrastructure for high-performance computing (Carissa Holohan – ALCF) to name just a few. The reality is that transgender and LGBTQ+ people have existed in science – and all spaces – since the beginning. Spectrum encourages you to read further on the impact the trans community has made, as well as read about the history and issues of the trans community and how to support transgender individuals. Members of the Argonne Leadership Institute, the Diversity Equity and Inclusion Council, and Employee Resource Group Council, worked to collect messages of support from the Argonne community for Transgender Day of Visibility (GIF below). Spectrum would like to thank all of those who participated! Unfortunately, we must also acknowledge the sustained attacks on members of our community happening right now in our country. In the last several months, dozens of anti-trans and anti-LGBTQ+ legislation has been proposed and in many cases, passed into law, including in Utah, Texas and Florida. While we attempt to be optimistic that these policies will be reversed through the legal process, we must also recognize the immediate and profound impact these cruel policies inflict on transgender families and their allies, and the entire LGBTQ+ community. No person deserves to live in fear of their neighbors and government because of their gender identity and for following established medical guidance. This a continuing, troubling trend of legislation targeting vulnerable and marginalized groups, and denying them agency in asserting their very existence. Transgender Day of Visibility highlights the importance of awareness of the Transgender community in countering the spread of harmful misconceptions, ignorance, and blatant misinformation and preventing the oppression of marginalized groups from being protected and encouraged by the laws of our nation. In alignment with our core values of Impact, Safety, Respect, Integrity, and Teamwork, it is our responsibility to learn about the transgender community and ensure we are continuously creating a Laboratory environment where we can all live authentically and contribute our best work. Spectrum also encourages supporting organizations which work to provide resources for Transgender people in the community. (Pete Friedman, co-chair of Spectrum notes: “I support the Brave Space Alliance which is a Black and Trans-led LGBTQ+ center located on Chicago’s south side but there are many other local and national organizations doing great work”)