Toolkit to Support Child Welfare Agencies in Serving LGBTQ Children, Youth, and Families Adapt policies and practices to meet the growing needs of LGBTQ children, youth, and families. Description Provides links to knowledge- and skill-building resources, including articles, videos, tools, training curricula, tip sheets, information briefs, websites, and other products, to help State and territorial child welfare agencies meet the needs of LGBTQ children, youth, and families. As the culture and laws related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) individuals have become more inclusive in recent years, an increasing number of LGBTQ people are self-disclosing their sexual orientation and/or gender identity (i.e., “coming out”) during childhood or adolescence. Additionally, the number of LGBTQ individuals coming forward to serve as temporary or permanent caregivers to children and youth in foster care has increased. This toolkit is designed to help states and territories adapt their policies and practices to meet the growing needs of LGBTQ children, youth, and families. It provides links to knowledge and skill building resources, including articles, videos, tools, training curricula, tip sheets, information briefs, websites, and other products. Resources address the four categories below: Creating a Culturally Competent Environment Includes readiness assessments, LGBTQ policies, guidelines, and procedures and other tools to help build cultural competence and create a welcoming agency environment. Best Practices Includes best practices regarding education, normalcy, and health and well-being for LGBTQ children and youth as well as support for LGBTQ families. View select best practices resources - Affirming and Supporting LGBTQ Children and Youth in Child Welfare [Tip Sheet] - Helping LGBTQ Parents Navigate the Child Welfare System [Tip Sheet] - Supporting and Affirming LGBTQ Children and Youth [Webinar] Training Curricula Includes training curricula for child welfare and other professionals related to working with LGBTQ children, youth, and families. Studies, Information Briefs, and Reports Includes studies, information briefs, and reports related to LGBTQ children, youth, and families. Suggested Citation Capacity Building Center for States. (2016). Toolkit to Support Child Welfare Agencies in Serving LGBTQ Children, Youth, and Families. Children’s Bureau, Administration for Children and Families, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This material may be freely reproduced and distributed. However, when doing so, please credit Capacity Building Center for States. Connect With Us Learn how we can help your agency build the capacity to thrive. Email: info@childwelfare.gov Phone: 1.800.394.3366 Visit the Center for States' Contact Us webpage for more information.